09/22/06 Ð Values Voters Summit 2006

 Tweet
 

Thank you for that very warm welcome. It's great to be here with you this 
morning.

You may wonder how it is that I got here. I actually got a call from Tony 
Perkins and he said Mitt, do you believe in free speech? And I said, look, 
I'm the governor of a very liberal state and I know it's a very blue state, 
but of course I do believe in free speech. And he said, great, I'd like you 
to give one.

I want to thank you for the work that you do because it comes at a critical 
time. I notice that I'm not the only person in this country who thinks this 
is a critical time. The great author David McCullough, the author of John 
Adams and Truman and 1776 was recently speaking at the White House. He 
spoke on the life of John Adams. After he was finished someone in the 
audience said, Mr. McCullough what was the most critical period in the 
history of America, the most critical five-year period? And he said, from 
2000 to right now. This is the most critical time in the history of 
America. You think about the reasons he may have said that.

We're under attack from jihadists.

We're also seeing the emergence of Asia, a new competitor. Good news 
because they're coming into economic vitality; a challenge as well for our 
economy.

We're also spending way too much money, number three.

Number four, we're using way too much oil.

But number five, the culture of America is under attack. Now some people 
say wait, when you talk about culture, Governor, that's not of the same 
order of magnitude as the things you just mentioned: jihadists and the 
emergence of Asia, spending too much money, using too much oil. And I 
disagree. There was a book written some years ago by a fellow named David 
Landis; he's a Harvard professor. The book was given to me. It's called The 
Wealth and Poverty of Nations. The jacket cover included an endorsement by 
John Kenneth Galbraith. I said, oh boy, this is going to be some liberal 
diatribe. I read through it and found it pretty scholarly. And after about 
500 pages, he concludes with roughly these words: If anything can be 
learned from the history of economic development in the world, it is 
this--culture makes all the difference.

Now what is it about America's culture that's made us the most powerful 
nation on the Earth? You can think about some of those things. One is we 
believe in hard work as Americans. We believe in education. We love 
freedom. We seek opportunities. We'll take risks in order to bring a better 
future for ourselves and our families. We sacrifice for the future and for 
our families. We are, in the words of the Bible, a God-fearing people. And 
even those among us who don't believe in God, as part of what Rick Warren > 
might call a purpose-driven life, we live for something greater than 
ourselves. Americans respect the value and the sanctity of human life. And 
American society is built on the foundation of the family unit.

Now when I say foundation--we use those words frequently--when I say 
foundation I want to underscore the fact that a foundation is essential for 
something to stand. Our society stands on the basis of the family unit.

Now my state's Supreme Judicial Court, about a year ago, struck a blow 
against that family unit, in my view. It said that our Constitution, 
written long ago by John Adams, requires people of the same gender to 
marry. I think John Adams would be surprised to hear that was in his 
Constitution that he wrote, but I think it underscores something which is 
important for us to remember, which is, we as people are willing to be 
tolerant and open even if we disagree with choices other people make; we 
espouse freedom and we respect people for their right to make their own 
choices in life. But the Court focused on adult rights. They said if 
heterosexual couples can marry, then to have equal rights homosexuals have 
to also be able to marry.

The mistake was they should have focused on the rights of children. Because 
marriage is primarily about the development and nurturing of children. The 
development of a child in the history of civilization has been enhanced by 
the opportunity to learn from the gender characteristics of a mother and a 
father. Every child has a right to have a mother and a father. Now we've 
seen the consequences of what happened in our state. Jesse Ventura said, it 
hasn't hurt my marriage. Well that wasn't the idea. Again he's back to 
adult impact. Let's look at the children. And the children--the impact on 
children will be felt not just in a day or two or a year or two but over 
generations as we think about the development and nurturing of children.

And the signs and the guideposts are already there for where we're headed. 
Same sex couples have approached the state and said you have to change the 
birth certificate. It shouldn't say mother and father. It should say Parent 
A and Parent B. audience reaction.

Second thing. Second grade classroom teaching from a book called The King 
and the King, about a prince who goes around from principality to 
principality. Doesn't fall in love with the princesses, but instead falls 
in love with another prince, and they become the king and the king. This is 
about children. One of the parents in a school teaching from this book 
said, I'd like my second grade little girl not to have to be there when 
that book is being read. And the school system said, oh no, she has to be 
there. You can't take her out of the class because in our state and under 
our Constitution we can't differentiate between same sex marriage and 
traditional marriage. We don't want to be heterocentrists, talking too much 
about mothers and fathers.

This decision has effects which also impinge potentially religious 
liberties. Catholic Charities, which has long placed many of our special 
needs kids, almost a third of the special needs kids from our Department of 
Social Services and Department of Youth Services have been placed by 
Catholic Charities--Catholic Charities has had to exit the adoption process 
in Massachusetts because they're now told they can't prefer adoption into 
traditional couples where there are mothers and fathers, but they must 
equally place children, contrary to the teachings and doctrines of their 
own church, they must place children in same sex homes. Religious liberty 
is also affected by this decision.

Now you haven't seen an impact in most of your states. You haven't seen the 
impact that we're seeing in our state, and hearing these battles going on, 
and you may ask, why is that?

There's a reason. After the Supreme Judicial Court passed its--or handed 
down its decision requiring same sex marriage, we of course went to work to 
try and get the legislature to put in place an acceptable amendment to the 
Constitution to reverse that decision. We weren't successful in that 
regard. Then we went out and got 170,000 signatures in Massachusetts, a 
record, to put a ballot initiative on the ballot so that citizens can vote 
in favor of traditional marriage. For that to get on the ballot, however, 
25 percent of the legislators have to agree. That's what the Constitution 
provides. And you'd think we'd be able to get 25 percent of the 
legislators. I think we will be able to, but those that are in control of 
the legislature may employ various tactical procedural moves to keep a vote 
from every occurring. Now how is it that the liberals would be so active at 
assuring that democracy can't have its way? I'm afraid that in some cases 
liberals love democracy only so long as the outcome is guaranteed in their 
favor.
But it is our deep hope and desire that the people of the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts will have their constitutionally guaranteed right to vote on 
a matter as fundamental to our society as its very foundation--whether or 
not we're going to have traditional marriage in Massachusetts or marriages 
with same sex couples.

There's another reason--or another factor of what we did once the decision 
came down to prevent the massive spread of same sex marriage across the 
country and that was to enforce a 1913 law that was on our books. The law 
says that Massachusetts can't marry people who come into Massachusetts from 
other states if it would not be legal to marry them in those states. So we 
avoided becoming the Las Vegas of same sex marriage by enforcing that law. 
It was challenged in the Supreme Judicial Court. They upheld it. They said 
it's on the books; it's a real law, and as a result the only people being 
married in Massachusetts, same sex couples, are people who are residents 
there. It has not affected the entire nation.

That will change... That will change, I'm afraid, if the state were to 
elect a Democratic governor. He says he would support employing whatever 
tactics, procedural or otherwise, would keep that kind of vote from 
occurring. It could change as well even if the Republican governor takes my 
place because the legislature is 87 percent Democratic and the Democratic 
party in my state has pledged as part of its platform same sex marriage.

And therefore, this gets me to the final action point. We desperately need 
to have a federal marriage amendment. I came to Washington and testified in 
favor of a marriage amendment. I wrote a letter to all the Senators asking 
them to vote in favor of a marriage amendment, and I have to admit those 
people who vehemently disagree with me, I understand their position and 
respect their right to take a different position.

I think the people I'm most upset with are people who say I agree with you, 
Governor; I believe in traditional marriage, but we shouldn't have a 
federal amendment. We should let this be up to the states.

And I keep making the point, and that is marriage is not like an activity 
like gambling that you can say if you don't want it, it just goes on in one 
state or another state. Marriage is the status. If people come to a Las 
Vegas of same sex marriage and then they go home, they still believe 
they're married, and in their communities they represent themselves as 
being married. Marriage in one state affects all of the states and 
therefore we have to have a federal standard that says marriage in this 
country is a relationship between one man and one woman.

Let me just underscore something I said that came from David Landis: 
culture makes all the difference. America is great not just because we have 
wonderful rivers and streams and great geography or that we have natural 
resources. America is not great because we have the best government. 
America is not great because we have the best corporations. Without a 
question America is great because we have great people. It is the people of 
America that make it the strongest and most powerful nation on the planet. 
And America's people are great because we have great parents who made us 
great. We have moms and dads and we can learn from their attributes and 
develop into a great and powerful society, and those attributes are 
enhanced enormously by being able to have such wonderful folks that come 
from both genders and who are willing to sacrifice and five to us. Of 
course there are good families with single moms that work like crazy to 
help their children, but in all cases where there's a mom and a dad, a 
child can learn from the attributes of both.

Sometimes I get a little discouraged and my friends get a little 
discouraged if you think about all the challenges: the jihadists, the 
emergence of a new economic power in Asia, the overspending by our 
government, the overuse of oil by our economy, and the extraordinary 
challenge to our culture, everything from work, education, sacrifice, faith 
in God, and family being the foundation of our society. All those things to 
a degree are [inaud.] being challenged, but I take some solace in the words 
of Abigail Adams, who was writing a letter to her son during the 
Revolutionary period and she said, John, great necessities call out great 
virtues. And I've seen time and again in this country that when the needs 
are great and people step forward [inaud.] that great virtues come out for 
the American people. We rise to the occasion time and time again. And we 
will become a stronger nation having confronted these challenges honestly, 
forthrightly and with all of our energy and strength.

My confidence comes also from the people I've seen. In my introduction you 
heard that I got the chance to run the Olympic Winter Games. What a thrill 
that was for a lot of reasons. Number one was I got to learn something 
about the heart of America's people.

I saw an athlete named Derrick Parra. You probably don't know Derrick. 
Derrick--Hispanic American living in Los Angeles. He's a roller blader. His 
wife says to him one day, Derrick you're very good on roller blades; why 
don't you put on ice skates and see how good you are? So he put the ice 
skates on and he was good. In fact so good in fact that he made the Olympic 
team for speed skating, came to Salt Lake City to compete in the Games 
there, got a silver medal, got a gold medal in speed skating.

The Vice President came to our closing ceremonies and said, Mitt would you 
choose one American athlete to sit with me in the closing ceremonies? I 
said sure, I would choose Derrick Parra. Derrick came in; I got the chance 
to ask him, Derrick, what was the most powerful experience, the most 
memorable, fulfilling experience in your Olympic Games. Wasn't the silver; 
wasn't the gold. The most powerful moment, he said, the most powerful 
experience was being able to carry in the American flag that had flown 
above the World Trade Center on September 11th of 2001 in the opening 
ceremonies. He was one of eight athletes selected by his fellow athletes to 
carry in that flag.

He had expected, he said, that when they announced the flag and its 
significance entering into the stadium, that the 55,000 people would erupt 
in cheers, but instead total, complete silence. Total reverence. And they 
carried the flag and they stopped in front of the choir and symphony that 
began playing the national anthem. And he said we were hanging on to our 
emotions as we hung on to this horizontally held flag, badly burned and 
shredded. And he said then they did something we hadn't expected. They were 
singing a 1930s version of our national anthem that I love by Robert Shaw, 
where there's a reprise of the last line. One octave higher for sopranos, 
more orchestration. O say does that star spangled banner yet wave o'er the 
land of the free and the home of the brave. And as they sung it that second 
time with more power, he said, a little gust of wind blew into that flag 
and it was as if the spirits of all those who fought for American liberty 
had just blown into it. And he said the tears then began to flow from his 
eyes. And as he told me the story they began to fill mine as well.

There's something special about America. Great people come forward when 
there's great need because of the heart of the American people. That's why 
I have such optimism about this great land. We face some real challenges, 
but these great necessities are calling out great virtues. Men like Tony 
Perkins and others who you have a chance to come and meet with here today. 
People like yourselves who are willing to put aside their time and [inaud.] 
to be with your friends and to fight for those things that you know are 
essential to preserve the strength of this great land. There is something 
great and special about America and it is her people.

Thank you so much for all you do.

