10/19/07 Ð Values Voters Summit 2007

 Tweet
 

"Thank you for your warm welcome. Thank you for the work you do to 
strengthen families and protect life.

"I think those who know me would say that I am pro-family on every level, 
from personal to political. I know this: the greatest blessing in my life 
is Ann and our five sons and daughters-in-law and ten grandchildren. My 
driving motivation is to have our kids and grandkids grow up in an America 
that is safe, prosperous and strong.

"To achieve that, it's not just what happens in the White House that 
matters, it is also what happens in your house. America's future will be 
determined not just by heads of state but also by heads of households.

"That being said, there is a good deal that our nation can do to assist and 
validate parents in their vital role. As C.S. Lewis said, parenthood is the 
ultimate career 'for which all others exist.'

"That rings true, doesn't it? That may be because of our Judeo-Christian 
heritage. We have been taught from our youth that marriage is ordained of 
God and that 'children are a heritage of the Lord; happy is he who hath his 
quiver full of them.'

"But there is another reason, a societal reason, for the fundamental role 
of family. Family is the building block of the nation; it is the economic 
unit of our society. This is not just rhetoric. It is reality.

"A mother and father who love each other and are devoted to their children 
will have children that are better educated, better adjusted, healthier, 
less likely to be raised in poverty and less inclined to crime and drugs.

"With two parents, there are more financial resources and more time to 
devote to the next generation Ð and there is someone around to take over 
when one parent is at their wit's end with the kids!

"Family also means that there is a compassionate caregiver when the 
inevitable sickness or infirmity strikes a family member.

"And when you consider the source of most of society's social problems, 
from teenage pregnancy to drug use to crime, you will find that they stem 
from the breakdown of the family.

"For all these reasons, a society is wealthier, healthier and stronger when 
it has strong families. In America, then, the family is a vital economic 
unit, the foundation of our nation. And it is the strength of this nation's 
families that ultimately determines America's strength in the family of 
nations.

"That is why I believe that the most important work for the future of 
America is the work that goes on within the four walls of the American 
home.

"Of course, not all families will have two loving parents. There are many 
great single parents Ð like my sister Jane, who raised four wonderful 
children on her own. So not always, but in the vast numbers of an entire 
nation, two parents are the ideal setting for raising a child, and for 
forming the economic unit of society.

"I certainly don't need to tell the Family Research Council and Focus on 
the Family that the American family is under stress, and under attack.

"One of the biggest threats to the fabric of our society is out-of-wedlock 
childbirth. Ann and I will use the bully pulpit to teach America's children 
that before they have babies, they should get married. It's time to make 
out-of-wedlock births out-of-fashion again.

"In 1965, a researcher named Daniel Patrick Moynihan was troubled by an 
alarming statistic Ð approximately 25% of African-American children were 
born out of wedlock. How would they escape poverty? Today, not 25% but 68% 
of African-American children are born out of wedlock. Bill Cosby related 
that in some inner cities: 'There are whole blocks with scarcely a married 
couple, whole blocks without responsible males to watch out for wayward 
boys, whole neighborhoods in which little boys and girls come of age 
without seeing up close a committed relationship and perhaps never having 
attended a wedding.' This simply breaks my heart. And then there are the 
broad national implications of this tragedy. A nation built on the 
principles of the founding fathers cannot thrive when so many children are 
being raised without fathers in the home.

"Ann taught a class of at-risk girls at Mother Caroline Academy in Boston. 
One day she asked her 5th graders how many of them wanted to go to college. 
Almost every hand went up. Then she asked how many were planning on having 
a baby before they graduated from high school Ð almost every hand went up 
again. And then she told them the truth: you just won't be able to do both.

"Every First Lady champions a cause. For Nancy Reagan, it was to just say 
no to drugs. For Barbara and Laura Bush, it has been reading. Ann has 
worked to help children make good choices like marriage and high school 
before having babies. If she is First Lady, this will be her mission.

"And if I am elected President, I will convene a White House Summit to look 
at ways we can strengthen the family, particularly in the inner city.

"In addition to using the bully pulpit, there are specific policy 
initiatives that I'd like to bring forward, as well as some goals we can 
set to accomplish together.

"I will re-align government incentives to encourage marriage, not penalize 
it. As we all know, few things had as devastating an impact on poor 
families as the 1960's welfare system. To some degree, that has been 
reformed, but there is more work to do. For example, a single mother with 
child care who marries the father of her child can lose as much as $6,000 a 
year in government benefits. Their combined incomes can disqualify them for 
Medicaid, housing vouchers, food stamps and welfare.

"It is time that we made fathers responsible for their child's health and 
care, whether or not they have married the mother. And further, the tax 
penalty we attach to married couples is simply offensive. The words 'I do' 
in marriage should not result in the government saying 'you don't' when it 
comes to the economic security of a family.

"Some years ago, Dr. Dobson met with President Reagan to determine how they 
could keep government from doing things that hurt families and that 
weakened the family structure in America. This meeting led the President to 
issue an Executive Order which established the requirement that new 
government policies and programs be subject to a Family Impact Statement. 
And then years later, without fanfare or reason, Bill Clinton simply 
snuffed it out. If I become President, I will re-instate the Family Impact 
Statement.

"In addition, I will initiate an audit of all current programs and policies 
which negatively impact families. And I will look to support the rights of 
parents who are not always consulted about decisions affecting their 
children. There is something wrong when a school can tell a parent that 
they have no right to remove their Second grader from a class where they 
are teaching about same-sex marriage. The work of being a parent is hard 
enough without the government making it harder.

"I will work with the people in this room, as I have for the past four 
years, to champion a federal marriage amendment to protect marriage as the 
union of a man and a woman. Within months of taking office as governor, the 
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court got the gay marriage ball rolling. 
They said it was in our state Constitution. John Adams, who wrote it, would 
be surprised. It was not in our Constitution, but it was in the heads of a 
one vote majority on the bench to birth new law without the benefit of 
democracy.

"The Court's error I believe was that it focused on adult rights Ð if 
heterosexual couples can marry, it reasoned, then to have equal rights, 
homosexual couples should also be able to marry. But they forgot that one 
of the primary purposes of marriage is the development and nurturing of 
children. Every child deserves a mother and a father.

"The Court's opinion is as astonishing as its ruling. It said that 
traditional marriage between a man and a woman 'works a deep and scarring 
hardship...for no rational reason.' No rational reason? How about the 
strength and preservation of our civilization?

"And this is no longer just a Massachusetts issue. As recently as a few 
months ago, a judge in Iowa said that gay couples have the right to marry 
because current marriage law 'operates ONLY to harm same sex couples and 
their children.' Astonishing.

"After the ruling in Massachusetts, I testified in Washington in favor of a 
federal marriage amendment. I wrote every Republican U.S. Senator to 
support it. But even some of our own voted against it. Make no mistake: a 
federal amendment is the only way we can protect marriage from liberal, 
unelected judges.

"I will be a pro-life President. I will appoint and fight for justices who 
follow the law and the Constitution, who understand judicial restraint and 
who won't legislate from the bench. But being a pro-life president also 
means promoting policies that reflect our respect for the sanctity of life. 
I will oppose taxpayer funding of abortion, oppose partial birth abortion, 
oppose abortion in military clinics, oppose funding abortion in 
international aid programs, and I will work to ban embryonic cloning. I 
will work to increase adoptions by making the adoption tax credit permanent 
and raising awareness about embryonic adoption, or snowflake babies.

"And you don't have to take my word for it, you can look at my record as 
governor. On every piece of legislation, I came down on the side of life. I 
was honored to receive the political leadership award from Massachusetts 
Citizens for Life in recognition of the actions I took as governor to 
protect life. I am grateful for the work all of you have done for years on 
this issue. Like Ronald Reagan and Henry Hyde, I am a convert to this 
cause. I have joined the fight to win the hearts and minds of others, and 
to work to create a culture of life.

"I will fight the modern plague of internet pornography, especially as it 
effects our youth. Following the Columbine shooting, Peggy Noonan said that 
our children are swimming in an ocean of filth Ð pornography, perversions, 
violence and sex. It's time we not only clean up that water our kids are 
swimming in.

"Computer pornography has given new meaning to the words 'home invasion.' 
If I am President, I will work to make sure that every computer sold into 
the home has an easy to engage pornography filter so that every parent can 
protect their child from unwanted filth.

"And these predators who use the internet to lure in children? In my book, 
it's one strike and you're ours. Long prison sentences followed by ankle 
bracelets for the rest of their lives.

"I will take the campaign against drugs to a new level. We can do a better 
job educating our kids on the perils of drug use. Parents may be the best 
anti-drug there is. A study reported last month that young children who 
come from homes where families had dinner together five times a week or 
more were 1/6th as likely to have used drugs.

"Dr. Dobson famously wrote that 'parenting isn't for cowards.' I know how 
hard it is to raise kids in today's world. I want to help families by 
making sure that every family has health care. My plan gets every citizen 
insured, without new taxes and without HillaryCare and socialized medicine. 
We put a plan to work in Massachusetts and already, the ranks of the 
uninsured have been cut in half.

"I will work for better schools and better education for our children. I 
want school choice Ð every child should have an equal opportunity to have a 
good education. I fought and won the fight to add charter schools in 
Massachusetts.

"And by the way, let's do something to help parents who are home schooling 
with a federal tax credit to help defray the cost of their home schooling 
expenses.

"I want to help parents save for their children's college education. My tax 
plan says that for every family earning $200,000 a year or less, the new 
tax rate on their interest, dividends and capital gains will be absolutely 
zero.

"I will defend America's religious heritage. I am convinced that a family 
with faith, a family with a pastor or other adult who cares about every 
child, has a distinct advantage in guiding children to successful 
adulthood.

"I will make sure my Attorney General defends the free exercise of 
religion.

"The effort to establish an anti-religion in America, the anti-religion of 
secularism, has got to come to an end. We are a nation under God, and we do 
place our trust in Him.

"By the way Ð a few of you may have heard that I'm a Mormon. I understand 
that some people think they couldn't support someone of my faith. That may 
be because they've listened to Harry Reid.

"Actually, I'm pleased that so many people of so many faiths have come to 
endorse my candidacy and my message. My campaign is about changing 
Washington to strengthen America: I want to build a stronger military, a 
stronger economy, and stronger families. I call these the three legs of the 
Republican stool. These three unite the coalition of conservatives that 
Ronald Reagan championed Ð defense conservatives, economic conservatives, 
and social conservatives.

"We won't win the White House with only two out of three or one out of 
three. Republicans win the White House by motivating all three parts of our 
coalition to carry us to victory. We're not going to beat Hillary Clinton 
by acting like Hillary Clinton.

"My whole family has been working on my campaign. And we've loved it. But 
we take this quite seriously as well. We know that if we win your vote for 
the Presidency, we will be expected to live by a higher standard. 
Everything we do will be under a microscope, whether we like it or not. The 
First family represents America to the world, and just as important, it 
represents America to your children and grandchildren. We will live up to a 
higher standard. Our family is far from perfect, but we'll always try to 
make you proud.

"This, after all, is why I am running Ð to strengthen our nation so that 
our children and yours will have a safe and free and prosperous future. And 
to strengthen our nation, we must begin by strengthening the family. It is 
the place where America's future is born, and where it is shaped. I need 
your help in this cause. You know the importance of the family. You know 
what we must do. I can't wait for us to do it together.

"Thank you, and God bless you."

