05/05/07 – Regent University Commencement 2007

 Tweet
 

Video of Mitt's speech begins here 
http://www.regent.edu/events/commencement/2007/video_high.cfm
 at 29:00

Swim in Deep Water by Mitt Romney

I don’t remember when it was exactly that I finally went past the sandbar. 
My family had a summer cottage on the shores of one of the Great Lakes. For 
the first forty or so feet, the lake is shallow, warm, and protected from 
big waves by the sandbar. That’s where I spent most of the hot summer days 
as a boy. I liked it there.

One day, my brother got me up on water skis. Perhaps fearing that a turn 
would make me fall, he drove the boat, and me, straight out into the deep. 
By the way, this lake is over 100 miles wide. I screamed at him the whole 
terrifying ride. He took me about a half mile out. But ever after, the deep 
water was where I wanted to be: surfing in the breakers, water skiing, 
diving. I got out of the shallow water for good. Over the years, I have 
watched a good number of people live out their lives in the shallows. In 
the shallows, life is all about yourself, your job, your money, your house, 
your rights, your needs, your opinions, your ideas, and your comfort.

In the deeper waters, life is about others: family, friends, faith, 
community, country, caring, commitment. In the deeper waters, there are 
challenging ideas, opposing opinions, and uncomfortable battles. Almost 
every dimension of your life can be held to the shallows or taken into the 
deeper water. Your career, your involvement with others, your spouse and 
your children, your politics, each can be lived with you comfortably at the 
center. Or, they can draw you out of yourself, into service and sacrifice, 
into selflessness.

At some point in your life, a few of you may be presented with the 
opportunity to step off your career path, to give yourself fully to some 
kind of service. When I was asked to leave my investment company to run the 
Olympics in Salt Lake City, I dismissed the idea out of hand. I was making 
too much money, I didn’t know bupkes about running a sports event. The job 
would pay me nothing. The organization was in the worst condition of any I 
had ever seen. And, after the Games were over, the position would lead 
nowhere. It was a dead end. I took it. It was the highlight of my 
professional life. I gave more of myself than I ever had before. I came to 
know and respect remarkable people.

There are currencies more lasting than money. It can be enormously 
rewarding to take the unobvious course, to jump into the deep water. Bias 
is shallow thinking and shallow water. Read widely, particularly from 
people who disagree with you. Argue to learn rather than to win. If you 
don’t respect, I mean really respect, the views of people who disagree with 
you, then you don’t understand them yet.

There are smart people on both sides of almost every important issue. Learn 
from them all. If you have life all figured out in neat little packages, 
you’re in Neverland, not the real world. And it’s boring there. There’s one 
more thing I’ve seen in the people who swim in the deep waters of life. 
They don’t fashion their values and principles to suit their self-interest; 
they live instead by enduring principles that are fundamental to society 
and to successful, great lives.

I learned important lessons about those principles from some of the 
Olympians I saw in Salt Lake City, like bobsledder Vonetta Flowers. Vonetta 
was brakeman on USA sled two. All the attention, however, was on sled one, 
the sled that had taken the World Cup and was a lock for the Olympic Gold. 
But just before the Olympics, the pilot of sled one dropped her partner and 
invited Vonetta Flowers to join her. Vonetta had a tough decision. On sled 
one, she’d get a gold medal for sure; the first Olympic gold to be won by 
an African American in the Olympic Winter Games. Those of us rooting for US 
medals hoped she would jump to sled one. She didn’t. She decided that 
friendship and loyalty to her longtime teammate on sled two was more 
important than winning the gold. Of course, sled one did well. But when 
sled two beat them all, coming in first, the crowd went nuts. And tears 
dripped off Vonetta’s cheeks. Friendship and loyalty above gold.

You live one time only. Don’t spend it in safe, shallow water. Launch out 
into the deep. Give yourself to your family, to your career, to your 
community. Open your mind to diverging viewpoints. And live, not by what 
suits the moment, but by the principles that endure for a lifetime. Jump 
in, the water’s fine!

