03/02/07 Ð CPAC 2007

 Tweet
 

Mitt Romney's speech at CPAC 2007, Part 1

Mitt Romney's speech at CPAC 2007, Part 2

Transcript:
It's good to be with so many conservatives. In fact, I invited all the 
conservatives in Massachusetts to come hear me today and I'm glad to report 
that they are both here. I'm happy to learn that after I speak you're going 
to hear from Ann Coulter. That's a good thing. I think it's important to 
get the views of moderates.

The mainstream media is surprised that we're here. They wrote our obituary 
last fall. Course, they've written our obituary before: after Watergate, 
after the 82 midterm elections, after Iran-contra, and after Bill Clinton's 
election. The truth is that their wishful thinking reports of our demise 
have been greatly exaggerated. In fact, I predict that we'll be around a 
lot longer than . . . say, newspapers.

No conservatism is alive and well. And it is needed more than ever. America 
faces a new generation of challenges, critical challenges. Today is similar 
in many respects to what we faced as a nation 30 years ago, looking at the 
menacing face of communism.

In fact, 30 years ago, in this very conference, one man stood up and told 
America what was needed. It was conservatism, a new coalition of 
conservatives that would lead to a brighter future for the nation. Ronald 
Reagan said this: "What I envision is not simply a melding together of the 
two branches of American conservatism into a temporary uneasy alliance, but 
the creation of a new, lasting majority." And here is where he said that 
this conservative alliance would lead: "I have seen the conservative 
future, and it works."

Coming from Massachusetts, I saw first hand the liberal future, and it 
doesn't work. That's why I ran against Ted Kennedy. Liberal social programs 
weren't solving poverty; they were in fact creating a culture of poverty. I 
didn't win, but at least Teddy had to take out a mortgage on his home to 
beat me. I was once campaigning in a poor section in Boston when a person 
came up to me and said: "What are you doing here? This is Kennedy country." 
I looked around at the vacant store fronts and boarded up windows and 
replied: "Yeah, it looks like Kennedy country."

No, it is the conservative coalition represented here that can build a 
brighter future for America: economic conservatives, social conservatives, 
and national security conservatives. I saw the potential of economic 
conservatism when I became governor. The state budget was $3 billion short. 
Liberals wanted to raise taxes, but I cut government instead. I eliminated 
and combined duplicative and wasteful agencies and programs, and I balanced 
the budget four years in a row. One commentator said that I didn't just go 
after the sacred cows, I went after the whole herd. And after four years as 
governor, I'm proud to report that Massachusetts has 600 fewer state 
workers than when I took office.

I went after taxes as well. The Legislature passed a $250 million 
retroactive capital gains tax increase. I knew my veto would be overridden 
by the 85% Democrat majority. So I had the Department of Revenue send every 
taxpayer a pro forma bill for their new higher taxes, and then I waited for 
folks to call their legislators. And did they ever. Then, I sent the 
Legislature an amendment that turned the $250 million tax increase into a 
$250 million refund. Amazingly, the Legislature now saw the error of their 
ways.

I didn't stop there. We made the investment tax credit permanent. We passed 
sales tax holidays. We gave tax breaks to medical manufacturing companies. 
We gave real estate tax breaks to seniors. And in each of my last three 
years, I submitted a budget that cut the income tax. It's time for some 
economic conservatism in Washington as well.

We've seen an embarrassing spike in non-defense, discretionary spending . 
As you know, I'm proud to be the first Presidential candidate to sign 
Grover Norquist's tax pledge. But I have another pledge I am making to you 
today. If I am elected President, I will cap non-defense discretionary 
spending at inflation minus one percent. That alone will save $300 billion 
over 10 years. If Congress sends me a budget that exceeds the cap, I will 
veto that budget. I don't care if it's a Republican or Democrat Congress, I 
will veto that budget.

And I know how to veto. I like vetoes. I vetoed hundreds of spending 
appropriations as Governor. And, by the way, if Congress doesn't want to do 
the cutting itself, then give me the same line item veto I had as governor.

And one more thing, I will personally lead a top to bottom review of 
government programs, agencies, procurement and spending . It's time to cut 
out the mountains of waste and inefficiency and duplication in the federal 
government. I've done that in business, I've done that in the Olympics, and 
I've done that in Massachusetts. And boy, I can't wait to get my hands on 
Washington.

Democrats in Washington are itching to raise taxes Ð 2011 is set to be a 
record breaking tax hike. Not if I'm President. I'll fight to stop the tax 
hike. And I'll fight for a new savings plan for middle class Americans as 
well Ð one that will grow the economy and help families at the same time. 
Under my plan, the amount of tax they will pay on dividends, interest and 
capital gains will be absolutely zero. It's high time to take government 
apart and put it back together, but this time simpler, smarter and smaller.

Let's talk about social conservatism too.

Massachusetts became center stage for the liberal social agenda Ð sort of 
San Francisco east, Nancy Pelosi style. Ten months into my term, the 
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court said our Constitution requires gay 
marriage. John Adams, who wrote it, would be surprised. Less than a year 
later, scientists were trying to convince me that it's not a moral issue to 
clone entirely new human embryos solely for research. Not long after that, 
the Catholic Church was forced to exit their adoption service because they 
preferred placing kids in homes with a mom and a dad, not two dads or two 
moms.

I have stood in the center of the battlefield on every major social issue. 
I fought to preserve our traditional values and to protect the sanctity of 
life. I vetoed bills, and filed new bills. I enforced a law that banned 
out-of-state same sex couples from coming to Massachusetts to get married. 
I went to the court again and again, I testified before Congress for the 
federal marriage amendment, and I championed our successful drive that 
collected 170,000 signatures for a citizen ballot initiative to protect 
marriage.

To me, a fundamental principle of democracy is at stake. It is the people 
who are sovereign in America, not a few folks in black robes. Judges add 
things that aren't in the Constitution, and they take away things that are 
in the Constitution. In that regard, they let the campaign finance lobby 
take away First Amendment rights. If I'm President, I will fight to repeal 
McCain-Feingold.

Another aspect of American sovereignty is the security of our borders. The 
current system is a virtual concrete wall against those who have skill and 
education, but it's a wide open walk across the border for those that have 
neither.

McCain-Kennedy isn't the answer. As governor, I took a very different 
approach. I authorized our state police to enforce immigration laws. I 
vetoed a tuition break for illegals and said no to driver's licenses. 
McCain-Kennedy gives benefits to illegals that would cost taxpayers 
millions. And more importantly, amnesty didn't work 20 years ago, and it 
won't work today.

The new generation of challenges we face today includes challenges to our 
national security as well. Violent [jihadists] are intent on replacing 
moderate Islamic governments with a Caliphate. To do that, they seek the 
collapse of our economy and our military. We will defeat the violent jihad 
with a two-part strategy. First, an unquestionably strong military. The 
best ally peace has in the world is a strong America. We need more men and 
women in the military, better armaments, and a Strategic Defense 
Initiative. And there's a second aspect of our strategy: we must bring 
together all the civilized nations of the world in what might be called a 
Second Marshall Plan. Together with them, and with volunteers, businesses 
and NGOs, we must support moderate Muslim nations and peoples. They need 
public schools that are not Wahabi schools, the rule of law, property 
rights, modern banking and agriculture and pro-growth economic policies. In 
the end, it is the Muslim people themselves who will eliminate radical 
jihad.

Iraq is just one front in the war. We removed Hussein, but afterward, we 
were under-prepared, under-planned, under-manned, and under-managed. But 
walking away now or dividing the country and then walking away would have 
real and severe risks for America and for our troops. I support the troop 
surge for that reason. And one thing I know, we shouldn't let Nancy Pelosi 
and Harry Reid dictate our battle strategy to the commanders in the field 
or to the Commander-in-Chief.

Conservatism is a belief in strength. It is because of America's strength 
that we don't all speak German and that our kids don't all speak Russian. 
And it is because of America's strength that our grandchildren will not 
have to speak Farsi or Arabic or Chinese. America must remain the world's 
military superpower. That is a first principle of conservatism. To remain 
the military superpower, we must remain the world's economic superpower as 
well. You can't be a Tier I military with a Tier II economy Ð the Soviet 
Union tried to keep that up for a while, and lost.

It's inconceivable to us that we could ever be passed economically. But 100 
years ago, it was inconceivable that anyone could have passed England or 
France. But we did. And if you look East, you can see that we are facing 
much more difficult competition from Asia than we have faced before. They 
want to move the center of manufacturing and technology and innovation from 
America to Asia. We may just smile, but don't forget what Will Rogers said: 
"Even if you're on the right track, if you don't move, you'll get run 
over." America will move, but the question is, "In what direction?"

History can be a guide. The 20th Century saw two economic systems pitted 
against each other. Ours was built on free enterprise, free trade and the 
primacy of the individual. The Soviet's was built on government command and 
control, and the primacy of the state. Ours produced the most powerful 
economy in the world that has given its citizens a standard of living our 
grandparents never dreamed possible; theirs produced a downward spiraling 
standard of living and eventual collapse. The 20th Century history lesson 
is that America's economy is strong because we put our trust in freedom, in 
the American people, and in the free enterprises they create.

If we are to keep America strong, we must turn to the source of America's 
strength. Liberals think that government is the source of our greatness. 
They're wrong. The American people are the source of our strength: hard 
working, educated, skilled, family-oriented, willing to sacrifice for their 
family and their country, God-fearing, freedom-loving American people. They 
always have been the source of our strength and they always will be.

And so if we need to call on the strength of America, you don't strengthen 
government, you strengthen the American people. You strengthen the American 
people by letting them keep more of their own money, and not taxing their 
families at death. You strengthen the American people by making sure that 
the voice of millions of voters trumps the voice of unelected judges. You 
strengthen the American people by securing our borders and by insisting 
that the children who come legally to this land are taught in English. And 
perhaps most importantly, you strengthen the American people when you 
strengthen the American family. marriage must come before children because 
every child deserves a mother and a father.

This is not the time for us to shrink from conservative principles. It is 
time for us to stand in strength. Because America faces unprecedented 
challenges, strength is the only answer. Strong military, strong economy, 
strong families. Thirty years ago, in challenging times, a great coalition 
was forged in these halls. Today, we face a new generation of challenges. 
If we in this room lock our arms together, we can forge the political will 
to rebuild our military might. If we in this room will simply march forward 
we can propel America's growth and prosperity to lead to the world. If we 
in this room lift up our eyes, we will lift the spirit of the nation. Now 
is the time, this is the place, for us to stand together, to lead a great 
coalition of strength, For our families, for our future, for America. May 
God bless this great land.

