02/07/08 Ð CPAC 2008 Ð Romney Suspends Campaign

 Tweet
 

Mitt Romney suspends his presidential campaign during his speech at CPAC on 
February 7, 2008. (transcript below)

Part 1

Part 2

Part 3

Transcript:
ROMNEY:Thank you, guys. Thank you. What an honor. What an honor to be here. 
Thank you. Thank you so much. What a welcome. That is so fabulous. And it's 
such an honor to be introduced by Laura Ingraham.

You know, we have all the fun. The people in our party, they're gorgeous, 
they're brilliant. It's wonderful to have Laura Ingraham on our side. You 
know that? She is wonderful. Thanks to her and all the talk radio for what 
they do to keep the conservative movement strong and alive and vibrant. And 
I appreciate her generous introduction.

And I love being introduced as the "conservatives' conservative." And 
that's exactly how I feel. Thank you.

I was also proud to be joined by my wife. You know my wife, Anne. She was 
here with me. And our five boys have been out campaigning. They're 
fabulous. It's been a family affair.

I want to begin today by thanking you. It was a real honor to be here last 
year. It's great to be here with you again. And I look forward to joining 
you many, many more times in the future.

Now, last year -- last year CPAC gave me the send-off I needed. At the 
time, I was in single digits in the polls, and I was facing household names 
in the Republican contest. As of today, more than 4 million people have 
given me their vote for president. That's good, yes.

That's, of course, less than Senator McCain's 4.7 million, but quite a 
statement, nonetheless. Eleven states have given me their nod, compared to 
his 13. Thank you to those 11. Of course, because size does matter, he's 
doing quite a bit better with the number of delegates he's got.

Now, to all of you, thank you, here, for caring enough about America to 
show up, to speak up, to stand up for conservative principles. As I said to 
you last year, conservative principles are needed now more than ever. We 
face a new generation of challenges: challenges which threaten our 
prosperity, our security and our future.

I'm convinced that unless America changes course, we could become the 
France of the 21st century. Still a great nation, but not the leader of the 
world, not the superpower. And to me that's unthinkable.

Look, it was a while ago Shimon Peres came to Boston for a visit. He was 
asked what he thought about the war in Iraq. "First," he said, "I have to 
put something in context." He said, "America is unique in the history of 
the world. In the history of the world," he said, "whenever there's been 
conflict, the nation that wins takes land from the nation that loses. One 
nation in history, and this during the last century, laid down hundreds of 
thousands of lives and took no land: no land from Germany, no land from 
Korea, no land from Japan. America," he said, "is unique in the sacrifice 
it has made for liberty, for itself and for freedom-loving people around 
the world."

And Colin Powell added, "The only land we took after the last great 
conflict was enough land to bury our dead." The best ally peace has ever 
known and will ever know is a strong America.

And that's why it is that we have to rise to the occasion, as we've always 
done before, to confront the challenge that are ahead of us. Perhaps the 
most fundamental of the challenges that we face is the attack on America's 
culture.

Over the years my business took me to a lot of different countries, and 
I've been struck by the enormous differences in the wealth and the 
well-being of people from different nations. I've read a number of 
scholarly explanations for the disparities, and I've found the most 
convincing was written by a fellow named David Landes. He's a professor 
emeritus at Harvard University. I presume he's a liberal. I guess that's 
redundant. And his work traces the coming and going of great civilizations 
throughout history. And after hundreds of pages of analysis, he concludes 
with this, and I quote: "If we learn anything from the history of economic 
development it is that culture makes all the difference." Culture makes all 
the difference.

What is it about America's culture that's led us to become the most 
powerful nation in the history of the world? Well, we believe in hard work 
and education. We love opportunity. Almost all of us are immigrants or 
descendants of immigrants who came here for opportunity. Opportunity's in 
our DNA. Americans love God, and those who don't have faith typically 
believe in something greater than themself, a purpose-driven life, if you 
will. And we sacrifice as Americans everything we have, even our lives, for 
our families, for our freedoms and for our country. These values and 
beliefs of free American people are the source of the nation's strength, 
and they always will be.

The threat to our culture comes from within. In the 1960s, there were 
welfare programs that created a culture of poverty in our country. Now, 
some people think we won that battle when we reformed welfare. But the 
liberals haven't given up. At every turn, they tried to substitute 
government largess for individual responsibility. They fight to strip work 
requirements from welfare, to put more people on Medicaid, and remove more 
and more people from having to pay any income tax whatsoever.

Dependency is death to initiative, risk-taking and opportunity. Dependency 
is culture killing. It's a drug. We've got to fight it like the poison it 
is.

The attack on faith and religion is no less relentless. And tolerance for 
pornography, even celebration of it, and sexual promiscuity, combined with 
the twisted incentives of government welfare, have led to today's grim 
realities: 68 percent of African- American kids born out of wedlock, 45 
percent of Hispanic kids, 25 percent of white kids. How much harder it is 
for these kids to succeed in school and in life. A nation built on the 
principles of the founding fathers cannot long stand when its children are 
raised without fathers in the home. The development of a child is enhanced 
by having a mother and a father. Such a family is the ideal for the future 
of the child and for the strength of the nation.

I wonder how it is that unelected judges, like some in my state of 
Massachusetts, are so unaware of this reality, so oblivious to the 
millennia of recorded history. It's time for the people of America to 
fortify marriage through a constitutional amendment, so that liberal judges 
cannot continue to attack it.

Europe -- Europe is facing a demographic disaster. That's the inevitable 
product of weakened faith in the Creator, failed families, disrespect for 
the sanctity of human life, and eroded morality. Some reason that culture 
is merely an accessory to America's vitality. We know that it's the source 
of our strength. And we will not be dissuaded by the snickers and knowing 
glances when we stand up for family values and morality and culture. We 
will...

Conservatives here and conservatives across the country will always be 
honored to stand on principle and to stand for principles. The attack on 
our culture is not the only a challenge that we face. We face economic 
competition unlike anything we have known before. China, and Asia are 
emerging from centuries of poverty. Their people are plentiful, innovative 
and ambitious. If we don't change course, Asia or China will pass us by as 
the economic superpower, just as we passed England and France during the 
last century. The prosperity and security of our children and grandchildren 
depend on us.

Our prosperity and security also depend on finally acting to become 
energy-secure. Oil-producing states like Russia and Venezuela, Saudi Arabia 
and Iran are siphoning over $400 billion out of our economy. That's almost 
what we spent annually for our national defense. It is past time for us to 
invest in energy technology: nuclear power, clean coal, liquid coal, 
renewable resources, energy efficiency. Simply put, America must never be 
held hostage by the likes of Putin, Chavez and Ahmadinejad.

Our economy is also burdened by the inexorable ramping up of government 
spending. And let's be careful: Let's not just focus on the pork alone, 
even though it is indeed irritating and shameful. Look also at the 
entitlements. They make up 60 percent of federal spending today. And by the 
end of the next president's second term they will total 70 percent. Any 
conservative plan for the future has to include entitlement reform that 
solves the problem, not just acknowledges it.

You know, I've found that most politicians don't seem to understand the 
connection between our ability to compete and our national wealth and the 
wealth of our families. They act as if money just happens, that it just 
happens to be there. But every dollar represents a good or service that's 
been produced in the private sector. If you depress the private sector you 
depress the well-being of all Americans. That's exactly what happens with 
high taxes, over-regulation, tort windfalls, mandates, and overfed, 
overspending government. Did you happen to see, by the way, that today 
government workers make more money than people who work in the private 
sector? Can you imagine what happens to an economy where the best 
opportunities are for bureaucrats? It is high time to lower taxes, 
including corporate taxes, to take a weed whacker... Get out -- get out 
that weed whacker and take it to regulations and reform entitlements and, 
by the way, stand up to the increasingly voracious appetite of the unions 
in our government.

And finally, let's consider the greatest challenge facing America, and for 
that matter facing the entire civilized world: the threat of radical, 
violent jihad. As you know, in one wing of the world of Islam there's a 
conviction that all governments should be destroyed and replaced by a 
religious caliphate. These jihadists will battle any form of democracy 
because to them democracy is blasphemous, because it says that citizens, 
not God, shape the law. They find the idea of human equality to be equally 
offensive. They hate everything we believe about freedom just as we hate 
everything they believe about radical jihad. To battle this threat, we've 
sent the most courageous and brave soldiers in the world. But their numbers 
have been depleted by the Clinton years, when troops were reduced by 
500,000, when almost 80 ships were retired from our Navy, and when our 
human intelligence was slashed by 25 percent. We were told we were getting 
a peace dividend. We got the dividend; we didn't get the peace.

In the face of evil and radical jihad, and given the inevitable military 
ambitions of China, we must act to rebuild our military might, raise 
military spending to 4 percent of our GDP, purchase the most modern 
armament, reshape our fighting forces for the asymmetric demands we now 
face, and give the veterans the care they deserve.

Soon the face of liberalism in America will have a new name. Whether it's 
Barack or Hillary, the result would be the same if they were to be able 
to.... if they were to be able to win the presidency. The opponents of 
American culture would push the throttle, devising new justifications for 
judges to depart from the Constitution. And economic neophytes would layer 
heavier and heavier burdens on employers and families, slowing our economy, 
opening the way for foreign competition to further erode our lead.

Even though we face an uphill fight, I know that many in this room are 
fully behind my campaign.

AUDIENCE: Mitt! Mitt! Mitt! Mitt!

ROMNEY: You are with me all the way to the convention. Fight on, just like 
Ronald Reagan did in 1976. But there is an important difference from 1976. 
Today we are a nation at war. And Barack and Hillary have made their 
intentions clear regarding Iraq and the war on terror: They would retreat, 
declare defeat. And the consequence of that would be devastating. It would 
mean attacks on America, launched from safe havens that would make 
Afghanistan under the Taliban look like child's play. About this, I have no 
doubt.

Now, I disagree with Senator McCain on a number of issues, as you know. But 
I agree with him on doing whatever it takes to be successful in Iraq, and 
finding and executing Osama bin Laden. And I agree with him on eliminating 
Al Qaida and terror worldwide. Now, if I fight on, in my campaign, all the 
way to the convention...

... I want you to know, I've given this a lot of thought -- I'd forestall 
the launch of a national campaign and, frankly, I'd make it easier for 
Senator Clinton or Obama to win. Frankly, in this time of war, I simply 
cannot let my campaign be a part of aiding a surrender to terror.

This isn't an easy decision. I hate to lose. My family, my friends, you, my 
supporters across the country, you've given a great deal to get me to where 
I have a shot to becoming president. If this were only about me, I'd go on. 
But it's never been only about me.

I entered this race -- I entered this race because I love America. And 
because I love America, in this time of war, I feel I have to now stand 
aside for our party and for our country.

AUDIENCE: No! No!

ROMNEY: You guys are great. I will continue to stand for conservative 
principles. I'll fight alongside you for all the things we believe in. And 
one of the things we believe in is that we cannot allow the next president 
of the United States to retreat in the face of evil extremism. It is the 
common task of each generation and the burden of liberty to preserve this 
country, expand its freedoms and renew its spirit, so that its noble past 
is prologue to its glorious future. To this task, accepting this burden, 
we're all dedicated. And I firmly believe, by the providence of the 
Almighty, that we will succeed beyond our fondest hope.

America must always remain, as it has always been, the hope of the Earth.

Thank you so very much. I love you. Thank you.

