11/18/2008 – Let Detroit Go Bankrupt

 Tweet
 

Let Detroit Go Bankrupt is an Op-Ed by Mitt Romney that appeared in The New 
York Times
 
on 11/18/2008.

IF General Motors, Ford and Chrysler get the bailout that their chief 
executives asked for yesterday, you can kiss the American automotive 
industry goodbye. It won’t go overnight, but its demise will be virtually 
guaranteed.

Without that bailout, Detroit will need to drastically restructure itself. 
With it, the automakers will stay the course — the suicidal course of 
declining market shares, insurmountable labor and retiree burdens, 
technology atrophy, product inferiority and never-ending job losses. 
Detroit needs a turnaround, not a check.

I love cars, American cars. I was born in Detroit, the son of an auto chief 
executive. In 1954, my dad, George Romney, was tapped to run American 
Motors when its president suddenly died. The company itself was on life 
support — banks were threatening to deal it a death blow. The stock 
collapsed. I watched Dad work to turn the company around — and years later 
at business school, they were still talking about it. From the lessons of 
that turnaround, and from my own experiences, I have several prescriptions 
for Detroit’s automakers.

First, their huge disadvantage in costs relative to foreign brands must be 
eliminated. That means new labor agreements to align pay and benefits to 
match those of workers at competitors like BMW, Honda, Nissan and Toyota. 
Furthermore, retiree benefits must be reduced so that the total burden per 
auto for domestic makers is not higher than that of foreign producers.

That extra burden is estimated to be more than $2,000 per car. Think what 
that means: Ford, for example, needs to cut $2,000 worth of features and 
quality out of its Taurus to compete with Toyota’s Avalon. Of course the 
Avalon feels like a better product — it has $2,000 more put into it. 
Considering this disadvantage, Detroit has done a remarkable job of 
designing and engineering its cars. But if this cost penalty persists, any 
bailout will only delay the inevitable.

Second, management as is must go. New faces should be recruited from 
unrelated industries — from companies widely respected for excellence in 
marketing, innovation, creativity and labor relations.

The new management must work with labor leaders to see that the enmity 
between labor and management comes to an end. This division is a holdover 
from the early years of the last century, when unions brought workers job 
security and better wages and benefits. But as Walter Reuther, the former 
head of the United Automobile Workers, said to my father, “Getting more and 
more pay for less and less work is a dead-end street.”

You don’t have to look far for industries with unions that went down that 
road. Companies in the 21st century cannot perpetuate the destructive labor 
relations of the 20th. This will mean a new direction for the U.A.W., 
profit sharing or stock grants to all employees and a change in Big Three 
management culture.

The need for collaboration will mean accepting sanity in salaries and 
perks. At American Motors, my dad cut his pay and that of his executive 
team, he bought stock in the company, and he went out to factories to talk 
to workers directly. Get rid of the planes, the executive dining rooms — 
all the symbols that breed resentment among the hundreds of thousands who 
will also be sacrificing to keep the companies afloat.

Investments must be made for the future. No more focus on quarterly 
earnings or the kind of short-term stock appreciation that means quick 
riches for executives with options. Manage with an eye on cash flow, 
balance sheets and long-term appreciation. Invest in truly competitive 
products and innovative technologies — especially fuel-saving designs — 
that may not arrive for years. Starving research and development is like 
eating the seed corn.

Just as important to the future of American carmakers is the sales force. 
When sales are down, you don’t want to lose the only people who can get 
them to grow. So don’t fire the best dealers, and don’t crush them with new 
financial or performance demands they can’t meet.

It is not wrong to ask for government help, but the automakers should come 
up with a win-win proposition. I believe the federal government should 
invest substantially more in basic research — on new energy sources, 
fuel-economy technology, materials science and the like — that will 
ultimately benefit the automotive industry, along with many others. I 
believe Washington should raise energy research spending to $20 billion a 
year, from the $4 billion that is spent today. The research could be done 
at universities, at research labs and even through public-private 
collaboration. The federal government should also rectify the imbedded tax 
penalties that favor foreign carmakers.

But don’t ask Washington to give shareholders and bondholders a free pass — 
they bet on management and they lost.

The American auto industry is vital to our national interest as an employer 
and as a hub for manufacturing. A managed bankruptcy may be the only path 
to the fundamental restructuring the industry needs. It would permit the 
companies to shed excess labor, pension and real estate costs. The federal 
government should provide guarantees for post-bankruptcy financing and 
assure car buyers that their warranties are not at risk.

In a managed bankruptcy, the federal government would propel newly 
competitive and viable automakers, rather than seal their fate with a 
bailout check.

Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, was a candidate for this 
year’s Republican presidential nomination.

