12/19/2008 – A Republican Stimulus Plan (Act Now)

 Tweet
 

This op-ed by Mitt Romney appeared on National Review Online
 
(NRO) on 12/19/2008, entitled A Republican Stimulus Plan - Act Now.

What is Washington waiting for? The inauguration is less than five weeks 
away: At the rate we’ve been going, another 500,000 jobs will be lost by 
then. The downward spiral is deepening and accelerating: Congress and the 
president must act now.

American families have lost about $11 trillion in net worth as securities 
and home values have plummeted. This translates into about $400 billion 
less annual consumer spending, net of government safety-net funding. 
Exports won’t grow to make this up, as the dollar has strengthened with 
investors worldwide clamoring for its relative security. Investments won’t 
make up the gap either, as bank loans and secondary-market financing have 
shrunk and as fresh equity is virtually non-existent.

So this is surely the time for economic stimulus. But — and this is the 
crucial point — the government can’t just make itself bigger and more 
oppressive in the guise of stimulating the economy. That would make matters 
worse. Nor should we forget that fiscal stimulus is but one part of the 
solution. As Christina Romer, Barack Obama’s designee as chairperson of the 
Council of Economic Advisors concluded from her study of the Great 
Depression, bad monetary policy was its greatest cause and good monetary 
policy was its most effective cure. The Fed should continue to expand the 
money supply. And, it should confirm that it will not tolerate deflation — 
the pain of inflation pales in comparison.

That being said, a stimulus plan is needed without further delay, and there 
are some things that Republicans should insist on.

The first is that tax cuts are part of the solution. Harvard professor and 
economist Greg Mankiw points out that recent research confirms that tax 
cuts have a greater multiplier effect than new spending — more economic 
bang for the federal buck. We should lower tax rates for middle-income 
families and eliminate their tax on savings altogether — no tax on 
interest, dividends or capital gains. Let’s also align our corporate tax 
rate with those of competing nations. These actions will rapidly expand 
consumption and investment, and right now, time is of the essence.

On the spending front, infrastructure projects should be a high priority. 
But because infrastructure projects involve engineering, environmental 
studies, permitting and contracting, they can take a long time to actually 
boost the economy. Spending to refurbish and modernize our military 
equipment is urgently needed, and it has a more immediate impact on the 
economy. A great deal of our armament was damaged or lost in the Middle 
East, and the rest is long overdue for maintenance.

We should also invest to free us from our dependence on foreign oil, not by 
playing venture capitalist, but by funding basic research in renewables, 
material science, combustion, nuclear reprocessing, and the like. During 
the 2008 campaign, virtually every candidate agreed on the need for an 
“Apollo-like mission” to achieve energy independence. Now is the time to 
start.

Cities and states will clamor for government dollars. Like the Big Three 
automakers, states should first take advantage of the downturn to do some 
needed cost cutting and restructuring. State employee numbers, pensions, 
and health-insurance premium sharing — as well as duplicate and ineffective 
agencies and programs — should be high on the hit list. State budgets 
should be brought in line with those of the most efficient of their 
comparables. And the federal government should look to ease the burden of 
mandates on states, like Medicaid.

Republicans should also lay down a gauntlet: All new spending projects 
should be selected by the responsible federal agency according to published 
criteria, not by congresspersons and senators based upon favors and 
politics. Republicans should commit to vote no on any stimulus bill with 
earmarks that have not been voted upon by their entire body.

There is a danger that new spending and deficits will lead to runaway 
inflation, flight from the dollar, and another economic crisis. It is 
essential, therefore, that Congress and the president commit to reform 
entitlement spending as soon as the economy recovers. With the footing of 
our long term economy at risk, with entitlements already reaching 60 
percent of federal spending and with baby boomers nearing retirement, this 
can be delayed no longer.

We must also be careful to avoid burdening the economy with excessive 
regulation in response to the need to reform regulatory oversight of the 
financial sector. Going too far could cripple the entire industry, further 
tightening the credit markets. And we should make it clear that Washington 
will not act to virtually impose unions on small business by eliminating 
the right of workers to vote by secret ballot in the workplace. This “card 
check” payback for the AFL-CIO’s support of the Democrats would devastate 
business formation and employment.

The Democrats may want to wait for Obama, but the country needs action now. 
Republicans can — and must — play an important role in shaping a stimulus 
bill that makes sense for America and lays a foundation for future 
prosperity and growth.

— Mitt Romney is the former governor of Massachusetts.

