01/15/08 Ð Romney Wins the Michigan Primary

 Tweet
 

Transcript:
ROMNEY: Tonight marks the beginning of a comeback, a comeback for America.

(APPLAUSE)

You know, only a week ago, a win looked like it was impossible, but then 
you got out and told America what they needed to hear.

(APPLAUSE)

You said we would fight for every job. You said that we would fight to get 
health care for all Americans. You said we'd fight to secure our border. 
You said you'd fight for us to be able to get lower taxes for middle-income 
Americans and Michigan heard and Michigan voted tonight. Congratulations...

(APPLAUSE)

Tonight proves that you can't tell an American that there's something they 
just can't do, because Americans can do whatever they set their hearts on.

(APPLAUSE)

And tonight is a victory of optimism over Washington-style pessimism.

(APPLAUSE)

Now, tonight, we are celebrating here in Michigan. I've got to tell you 
that.

(APPLAUSE)

Guess what they're doing in Washington. They're worrying, because they 
realize, the lobbyists and the politicians realize, that America now 
understands that Washington is broken. And we're going to do something 
about it.

(APPLAUSE)

You see, America understands that Washington has promised that they'd 
secure our borders, but they haven't. Washington told us that they would 
live by high ethical standards, but they haven't. Washington told us that 
they'd fix Social Security.

AUDIENCE: But they haven't!

ROMNEY: Washington told us that they'd get us better health care and better 
education.

AUDIENCE: But they haven't!

ROMNEY: Washington told us they'd get us a tax break for the middle-income 
Americans.

AUDIENCE: But they haven't!

ROMNEY: Washington told us that they'd cut back on the earmarks and the 
pork-barrel spending, but they haven't. And Washington told us they'd 
reduce our dependence on foreign oil, but they haven't.

And who's going to get the job done? AUDIENCE: We are!

(APPLAUSE)

ROMNEY: You guys, it was not very far from right here that Ann and I and 
our family behind us began our campaign at the Henry Ford Museum of 
Innovation...

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mitt, we love you!

ROMNEY: Wow, that's powerful. I'll tell you.

And at that Museum of Innovation, we said that we were going to take 
innovation and change to Washington, recognizing that there's no way that 
an insider in Washington is going to turn Washington inside- out, but we're 
going to do that.

(APPLAUSE)

American voters said that knowing how America works is more important than 
knowing how Washington works. And what we're going to see in the next few 
days is Democrats saying that they're the party of change. You're going to 
hear Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama and John Edwards saying that they're 
the party of change, and I think that they would bring change to America, 
just not the kind that we want.

You see, I think they take their inspiration from the Europe of old, big 
government, big brother, big taxes. They fundamentally in their hearts 
believe that America is great because we have a great government, and we do 
have a great government. But that's not what makes us the best nation, the 
strongest nation, the greatest nation on earth. What makes us such a great 
nation is the American people.

I take my inspiration from Ronald Reagan and George Herbert Walker Bush...

(APPLAUSE) ... who took their inspiration from the American people, 
hardworking American people, people who believed in opportunity, who loved 
education, God-fearing people, people who also loved their families, people 
deeply patriotic. It is that characteristic of the American people that 
makes us the most powerful nation on Earth.

Ronald Reagan, George Herbert Walker Bush, said we are a great and good 
people. It's exactly what we are. It's why we will always be the most 
powerful nation on Earth.

(APPLAUSE)

Now, you heard right here in Michigan our campaign. We said we were going 
to strengthen our military with additional troops and better equipment and 
better care for our veterans when they come home. We also said that we're 
going to strengthen our families. We said we're going to strengthen the 
economy. I will never accept defeat for any industry here in America. We'll 
fight...

(APPLAUSE)

I have a couple of questions for you. Is Washington, D.C., broken?

AUDIENCE: Yes!

ROMNEY: Can it be fixed?

AUDIENCE: Yes!

ROMNEY: Are we the team that's going to get the job done?

AUDIENCE: Yes!

ROMNEY: All right, let's take this campaign to South Carolina and Nevada 
and Florida and all over the country. Let's take it all the way to the 
White House.

(APPLAUSE)

Thank you so much.

