03/31/09 – Remarks to the National Republican Senatorial Committee Spring 
Dinner

 Tweet
 

Delivered to the National Republican Senatorial Committee Spring Dinner at 
the Newseum, Washington D.C.

It is good being with good friends. I appreciate the chance to be with 
folks who are so generous in your support of Republican principles and 
ideals and American principles and ideals. And it is an honor to be with so 
many United States Senators who I respect so deeply. Leader McConnell, 
thank you for your leadership. They are standing for America at an 
absolutely critical time. And that is not meant to be a hyperbole; I intend 
to speak somewhat seriously this evening. Because I think these are 
critical times for the world and for the nation, defining times for the 
world and the nation. For the world because, at least in my view, there is 
a competition occurring which I didn’t think was going to be occurring at 
this point. I thought that when we won the Cold War, it was over. That it 
was clear that America’s values and the free enterprise system had won and 
everything else had failed. And then America therefore would be the model 
for the entire world. That is no longer as clear to the world.

As I look at it now, there are actually four major competitive philosophies 
that are in the world of competition to decide who is going to lead the 
world for this century. There is us of course, we represent a philosophy 
based on two fundamental principles, free enterprise and personal freedom. 
And those principles combined have led us become the strongest nation in 
the world. There is China. China has abandoned the socialist approach to 
their economy and adopted free enterprise. They took free enterprise, but 
they combined that with authoritarianism. An entirely different philosophy 
and they believe that they will win, that our approach of free enterprise 
plus freedom is wrong and with authoritarian rule they will be more 
successful. The third strategy is represented by Russia. I thought they 
were gone as a competitor but they are back. Also like China based upon 
authoritarian rule, but instead of having an economy based on productivity 
and industrial capacity, they are basing their economic strength on energy, 
their own energy, and by allying with people like Iran that may become the 
superpower in the Middle East, and Venezuela. They think they will get the 
riches of the world and become the powerful leader of the world in the 21st 
century. And then there is a fourth strategy represented by Jihadists. And 
their view is to cause the collapse of the other three, cause mayhem in the 
economy of the world and then become the last man standing, if you will, so 
they can cause the release of the hidden Imam.

Those are the four major strategies at play. And only one by the way 
includes as a fundamental premise of its success the freedom of 
individuals: ours. And that is why it is so essential at this time that 
America’s strategy is successful, because only if our strategy is 
successful will the world in this century continue to enjoy and experience 
the fruits of freedom. So it is a defining time for the world, in my view, 
and it is a defining time also for the nation. I was asked some time ago by 
a friend who was the commissioner of education for his state. He said, 
“Mitt what do you think are the great inflection points in American 
history?” And I said, “Neil, what do you mean by inflection points?” And he 
said, “Well if you look back at American history you will find that there 
are points in time when everything shifts.” When military strategy shifts, 
when economic strategy shifts, culture shifts, government’s role shifts.

And we surmise that one of those times was the turn of the century from the 
1800s to the 1900s. We went from an agricultural society to an industrial 
society. Military strategy changed, tanks got to be built, aircraft were 
built and so forth. Culture changed, government played a more active role. 
And so that was one of those points. We step back further, the Civil War 
was one of those points, where we decided that we really were committed to 
union and the idea that the Constitution applied to every single person who 
was a citizen of this great land. And if you go back one step further, you 
get the Revolutionary days, the great quintessential turning point, the 
major inflection point in American history where we changed the course of 
history by a very radical idea and proposition. It was this: the entire 
world until that point believed that the king or the government, or whoever 
was the leader of the respected nation, was the sovereign. And the citizen 
was, if you will, the servant to the state. And America’s founders had a 
different premise. It was the citizen is the sovereign and the government 
is the servant. And that, as they say, made all the difference. That 
revolutionary idea changed America and ultimately changed the world.

Now I happen to believe that America has another inflection point today. 
That militarily strategies are changing, that our economy is changing in 
many, many different ways. That our culture is changing and even the role 
of government is being debated.

In fact, in my view, what is being debated about the role of government is 
going back to the very argument that was at the crux of the Revolution. 
Which is that there are, if you will, among our liberal friends, there’s a 
strain of monarchism. And I don’t mean that in a sense of trying to create 
a monarchy or selecting a king, that’s not what I mean. But in the sense of 
saying actually the government should be the sovereign. That government 
knows best. That idea is permeating in some circles in Washington and in 
other places in the country. And there are people like ourselves who 
believe, no, no, no, the fundamental premise of America was that the 
individual should be the sovereign. And that’s why the founders limited the 
scale of government and made sure that power was limited in government. And 
any time the government needed to have power that power would reside in the 
level closest to the people -- the city level, the county level, the state 
level. And when those levels could not deal with the power, it was received 
at the federal level.

And so revolutionaries, like Republicans today, believed that the 
individual and the citizens should remain sovereign. Republicans are the 
revolutionaries of today, because we fervently, passionately, ardently 
believe that the individual is what accounts for the strength and capacity 
of America today and will always account for the capacity of America in its 
future. We want individuals to realize their dreams. We welcome people who 
come here as immigrants because they seek opportunity. We want that 
opportunity to be fulfilled. Republicans want individuals to be able to 
start businesses. We want individuals to be able to keep as much of their 
money as they can. We want them to be able to choose their own doctors. We 
want them to be able to choose their own schools. We want them to be able 
to grow and thrive in businesses and enterprises or to be able to select by 
secret ballot whether they want to have a union or not. We believe in the 
rights of individuals. That’s what Republicans stand for. There’s actually 
more truth in a little joke than I had thought. You’ve probably all heard 
this joke, someone told it to me recently. What’s the difference between a 
Republican and a Democrat? Well, a Democrat wants power and a Republican 
wants to keep Democrats from having power. And there’s truth to that. We 
don’t want Democrats to have power, or government to have power. We want 
people to have power.

Now, that difference is very much at play in the debate that’s going on day 
in and day out here in Washington. We agreed that there was a need for a 
stimulus. Every Republican voted for a stimulus plan, but ours was 
different than theirs. You see, when we thought about a stimulus plan to 
grow the economy, Republicans said, “It has to be based on strengthening 
the individual.” So for us the center piece of the stimulus plan was 
putting more money back in the hands of individuals and making it easier 
for them to get our economy going again. As Democrats thought about the 
stimulus they said, “Oh, because government knows best, we’ll give more 
money to government.” And so Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi and others put 
together a list of all the programs they wanted, put money in the 
government and grew the government; a very different philosophy.

We also saw in the economic crisis that the pool of investment capital in 
America has shrunk, dramatically. That’s the capital needed to create new 
enterprises or to grow up a business or pay for working capital needs or 
even to add new jobs. And with that pool of capital shrunk, that’s a very 
frightening thing. It’s hard for the economy to turn around – it’s hard for 
the private sector to turn around if the pool of capital is too small. No 
matter how much stimulus you put up there, if the capital that fuels the 
business is gone, they can’t grow and hire people. And so you have to be 
sure to keep the taxes on capital and investment low, so there’s more of 
it. But for people who believe that government is the answer, they say, 
well, we’ll raise the taxes on investment. We’ll raise the taxes on 
business, and investment and capital so the government will have the money 
that we want to have for our growth. It’s a very different philosophy.

When the President addressed Congress for the first time, I watched it on 
TV. I rarely yell at the TV. I did a few times. I expected the President to 
speak about two topics. The conflicts we face, relative to Jihadists and 
the fact that our soldiers were sacrificing and risking their lives on our 
behalf. He hardly addressed that at all. The other thing I expected him to 
talk about was the economy. Instead he spoke about many, many other things. 
I agreed with Warren Buffet afterwards that the first rule of turning 
around any kind of enterprise -- a family, a church, a school, a business 
-- is focus, focus, focus. And instead he used the crisis of our economy as 
cover to do a lot of other things that would strengthen the scale of the 
power of government. And that’s because of his fundamental belief that the 
government is right, so he brought up health care, saying we’re going to 
have government play a far more active role and lead in health care and 
grow a different health care plan, spending in my view well over a trillion 
dollars, they say 600 billion dollars over the next decade, but it’s going 
to be a lot more than that if government turns health care for everybody 
into an actual entitlement. He spoke about universal preschool. He spoke 
about universal post-high schools. He spoke about a cap and trade program. 
Each of these things are designed to expand the role of government.

By the way, on the universal cap and trade, I’m sure a lot of people have 
differing views on that, but just think about that for a moment. Obviously 
it represents an enormous tax on the American people and on American 
businesses to have a new cap and trade program, but just as a note for 
those that feel very passionately about wanting to reduce carbon emissions, 
recognize that if we, alone as a nation, place a very substantial cap and 
trade burden on ourselves, the major energy-using industries will simply 
leave our shores and go elsewhere where those cap and trade provisions 
don’t exist and as a result those CO2 emissions will remain the same. The 
only way to deal with global warning and carbon emissions is to do so on a 
global basis. They don’t call it “America warming.” They call it global 
warming.

I’d like to note as well that you heard the President speak about his 
support of charter schools in his address and I was surprised he raised 
that. I noticed that there was applause, vigorous applause, from the 
smaller side of the room, and you heard what came from the Democratic side 
of the room – crickets. And the reason for that is that there is a 
fundamental distrust in some circles for charter schools because they are 
outside the control of unions and government. I believe they are 
fundamental to a philosophy that believes in the right of individuals to 
select a school for their child and have more influence over schools.

Perhaps the greatest advance of the philosophy of government and expansion 
of the scale of government and the sovereignty of government over the 
individual is the idea of card check. The idea that you would say we’re 
going to remove from the individual the right of the individual to 
determine whether they want a union by secret ballot. We instead are going 
to remove that and use power as a way of imposing unions that people in 
that enterprise may not want to have. When I was governor of Massachusetts, 
the legislature passed a bill in favor of card check, but only for public 
institutions. I vetoed it. The new governor, of course, saw the same bill 
after I left office and he signed it, and upon the signature of that bill 
the organizers of unions went to work at a charter school, and they 
unionized a charter school. They got enough of the teachers to sign up for 
card check, and the administrators of the charter school didn’t even know 
it was being unionized. There was no need to notify them, no chance for 
them to sit down with the teachers and talk about the implications of 
unionization of an enterprise which had been set up to allow parents to 
have an influence over the education of their child. I’ll tell you that 
this is exactly what the Democrats would like to do to the entire nation. 
It is their view that power in the hands of administrators, of government 
bureaucrats, of elected officials, of union leaders, that that kind of 
power is the right power to have in our society, and we recognize instead 
that it’s the power of the individual that has made America what it is.

Now you saw the President’s budget as well. Senator Judd Gregg said the 
Obama budget would bankrupt the nation. Why is that? Since there have been 
times in the past where we spent more than we have taken in, where we’ve 
borrowed money before, why is Judd Gregg so concerned about this budget and 
the forecast by the Obama administration of ten years of massive budget 
deficits, why is he being so concerned about that? By the way, Bill 
Bennett, on his radio show, said that the deficits under the Obama 
administration for eight years, if he had eight years, the deficits would 
be four times the scale of the deficits of the Bush years, which in turn 
were much larger than the prior president’s.

Now why is it so frightening? Because we are right now in a very precarious 
position. We tend to only be looking at what’s happening on one side of the 
precipice, which is what happens if the economy continues to stall, if the 
recession goes on for a long period of time. That is very frightening. But 
there is the other side; if we spend too much, if we’re too profligate, if 
we are too ineffective in the way we use our dollars, we can end up causing 
a crisis of confidence in America on the part of people around the world 
who loan money to us and allow us to spend more money than we take in. And 
if the Chinese and the Japanese and even our own citizens lose confidence 
in the future value of the dollar, we can have a run on the dollar, and 
ultimately hyperinflation – an economic problem even greater than the one 
we have now. I look at President Obama’s budget and I look at what he’s 
thinking about for the future of that budget, and the new programs he wants 
to have, and I call it “Flying Wallenda” economics. He would take us on a 
tightrope where the prospects of getting across it are extremely remote. 
What we need instead is a very clear and convincing commitment to balancing 
our budget so the world understands we’re serious about fiscal restraint 
and that includes freezing the growth of discretionary spending. It also 
means finally dealing with the reforms necessary in our entitlement 
programs.

Well, you know, I think the American people are seeing through what’s 
happening. The Democrats are trying to use this crisis as a way to advance 
their philosophy of the supremacy of government, and I don’t think the 
Americans are going to be fooled. I love telling jokes. I told you this was 
a serious address, but I cant resist a joke. It’s about underestimating 
someone’s intelligence. It’s about a barber. He’s cutting a customer’s hair 
and this kid walks in, and the barber says to his customer, “This kid is 
the stupidest kid I’ve ever met. Just watch this.” The barber takes two 
quarters out of his pocket and puts them in his hand. Then he takes a 
dollar out and puts it in the other hand. He says, “Kid, come here.” He 
says, “You choose which you want,” and the kid grabs the two quarters and 
runs out. And the barber says to the customer, “Can you believe that kid, 
he is the stupidest kid I’ve ever met.” Well, the customer is walking down 
the street a little later and he sees the kid – the kid’s eating an ice 
cream cone – and he says, “Kid, why’d you take the 50 cents instead of the 
dollar?” He says, “If I took the dollar, that game would be over, wouldn’t 
it?”

The American people are not as thick as some would have it, or have us 
believe. Now, right now, of course, the interests of America depend in many 
ways on the decisions President Obama is going to bring forward. It’s a 
reality that he has the best wishes and the prayers of the American people 
to do the right thing, to adopt the correct principles and to take America 
down a course that will secure our economy and keep us free and bring our 
men and women home in safety and in victory. I think he incorrectly 
believes that the 2008 elections settled the great issues that divide 
America. I don’t believe that’s the case. I watched the debates. These 
great issues were rarely discussed at all. The one I’ve been discussing 
tonight wasn’t even touched on in any significant way. I believe we have 
every right, in fact a duty, to press on, to make sure the principles that 
have been the revolutionary founding principles of America continue to be 
foremost in America. But I also think it is important for us to nod with 
the President when he’s right. He will not always be wrong. And he’s done 
some things that I agree with. I like, for instance, that he backed away 
from his campaign promise to pull the troops immediately out of Iraq. I’m 
glad that he’s letting them stay there, finish the job and bring them home 
in victory.

I’m glad he is going to get tough on the Taliban and Al Qaeda in 
Afghanistan and he’s using drones to go after the bad guys, even in 
Pakistan. I’m glad that he is speaking tough about the auto industry, by 
the way. I think that needed to happen. We should have done that a long 
time ago. I hope he continues to be tough and show some backbone, because 
that industry is not going to make it unless we have real backbone and get 
those guys to fundamentally restructure all of their obligations.

I think it’s a good thing for him to protect our financial system. It took 
Secretary Geithner a long, long time to figure how he was going to do that, 
and actually he has zeroed in on the bank rescue plan. It reminds me a bit 
of an old statement by Churchill about Americans, “You can trust Americans 
to get things right, after they’ve exhausted all the alternatives.” And 
he’s exhausted the alternatives and I think he’s finally getting close to 
the right answer.

President Obama, however, is wrong to back away on missile defense. He was 
wrong to say on Arab TV that America dictates to other nations. America has 
sacrificed more than any other nation to free people from dictators. And of 
course, President Ahmadinejad of Iran seized upon that misstep by our 
President to call for an apology from America. I think the President is 
going to learn very quickly that the Middle East is not Mr. Rogers’ 
neighborhood.

I’m hopeful we can continue to fight for the supremacy of the citizen and 
of the individual with resolve. In the last eight years, we saw how a 
president’s political adversaries can be consumed by anger, even hatred. 
That’s not the spirit that brings us here tonight. We want our country to 
succeed no matter who gets the credit. We want America to be prosperous and 
secure. We want to always put the nation and the interests of the nation 
first. The interests of the nation, however, require that the principles of 
the Founders are upheld and protected. Preserving and defending the 
principles of the Revolution is the charge of this Republican Party. We are 
the Party of the people. They are the Party of government. We’re the Party 
of limited government. We’re the Party that will keep America the land of 
opportunity and that’s a message which Hispanic-Americans, Asian-Americans, 
African-Americans and others that have not voted with us significantly in 
the past, but as they should in the future if they understand. They will 
vote with us time and time again, because they are in this land, as we are 
all in this land, because it is the land of opportunity. Now occasionally, 
the odds look a little long. But in the end, we’re going to win, because 
the cause of personal freedom and citizen supremacy and sovereignty is far 
too compelling to be overthrown by big government. That’s our fight. We are 
going to make it happen. Thank you so very much.

