09/17/09 – Obama on Missile Defense: Alarming and Dangerous

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was originally posted at National Review.

Obama on Missile Defense: Alarming and Dangerous


By Mitt Romney
September 17, 2009

It is with good reason that the American people are focused on the economy 
and domestic issues — we continue to lose jobs, amass record-breaking 
deficits, and the president is promoting a plan to add a trillion dollar 
health burden. But foreign-policy actions by the Obama administration 
deserve immediate attention.

President Obama has made a dangerous and alarming decision to shelve our 
missile-defense system in Europe. Facing the growing threat from Iran’s 
nuclear ambition, the Pentagon’s Missile Defense Agency has worked long and 
hard to secure a site for the system to thwart a potential strike against 
our European allies. Developing the missile shield could also have 
important implications for U.S. security. His decision is wrong in every 
way, despite his rationale:

    * The administration says that our intelligence believes the threat
    from Iran is not as far advanced as it had originally estimated. First,
    our intelligence regarding Iran is far from reliable and certain. Our
    window into the country is cloudy, at best. Other foreign intelligence
    agencies have reached very different conclusions. And second, it makes
    no sense to try to time the construction, testing, and deployment of a
    defense system to the very hour when one might guess the nuclear threat
    will arrive. No one is that prescient. Using the most rosy scenario of
    Iran’s nuclear capabilities to schedule the establishment of our
    defense is dangerous in the extreme.

    * The administration believes that by giving such a gesture of goodwill
    to the Russians, they will be more willing to give in to our request
    that they join in sanctions against Iran. Here, the president’s lack of
    negotiation experience may have come in to play. Yes, sometimes in a
    negotiation you give up something that is important to you, but you do
    that only when the other party has agreed to give you something you
    want even more. You don’t give before you get. But here it’s even worse
    than that: The president has taught Putin that when he blusters and
    threatens, America caves.

    * The administration is also teaching our friends some very unfortunate
    lessons; the Eastern Europeans who have stood so valiantly with America
    and who took political heat for backing the missile-defense system have
    simply been brushed aside. They have to wonder why America is treating
    its foes better than it is treating its friends. It’s a question that
    also is surely being asked in Israel and Honduras.

    * The administration’s discounting of Iran’s nuclear progress tells
    Israel that if it is to stop what its own intelligence may believe is
    an imminent threat, it may have to act alone — and precipitously.

Iran is not cooperating with the IAEA. It is rushing headlong towards 
nuclear capability — it may already have enough enriched uranium to build a 
bomb. And it may well have secured access to missile technology from other 
nations. North Korea is, of course, much further along. And Pakistan, a 
state threatened from within by jihadists, has extensive nuclear 
capabilities. In such an environment, it is alarming and dangerous for the 
president to walk away from our missile-defense commitments.

