08/07/2009 Ð The EFCA Threatens Educational Innovation

 Tweet
 

This op-ed by Mitt Romney appeared online at DenverPost.com
 on 08/07/2009. It is 
entitled The EFCA Threatens Educational Innovation. EFCA, or Employee Free 
Choice Act, is otherwise know as "card check".

Colorado has one of the strongest charter school movements in the country, 
providing rich educational opportunities for its young people. 
Unfortunately, future progress in public schools - in Colorado and around 
the country - could be threatened if Congress passes card check 
legislation. We have already seen it happen in Massachusetts.

New card check rules are one part of a proposed overhaul of U.S. labor law 
now being considered by Congress under the misleading name, the Employee 
Free Choice Act (EFCA). If enacted, this bill would take away workers" 
rights to freely choose - or reject - union representation by the 
traditional secret ballot.

Instead of a fair election, unions would hold card-signing drives, which 
would require workers to make their decision known to co-workers and 
employers exposing them to intimidation and coercion.

Despite reports that Democratic leaders in Congress are going to water down 
this provision, union leaders say they will continue to push for it.

In 2006, my last year as governor of Massachusetts, I vetoed a card check 
bill that would have applied to public employees. But the following year, 
after I had left office, big unions again campaigned for the legislation, 
and this time my Democratic successor signed the bill into law. No one 
expected what happened next.

With new authority to compel workers to join unions, labor leaders and 
organizers unionized a charter school for the first time in Massachusetts, 
unbeknownst to school administrators and parents. One of the crucial 
benefits of charter schools is that they operate outside public employee 
union contracts.

Charter schools can be flexible and innovative, reward results, and provide 
alternatives to traditional public schools. They do not face the often 
burdensome union contract rules that stifle creativity and reward 
ineffective and unproductive teachers protected behind the muscle of union 
power.

The fate of card check could turn on just a handful of undecided Senators, 
including Colorado Senator Michael Bennet. When Bennet served as the 
superintendent of the Denver Public Schools, he rightly challenged union 
authority to bring needed improvements to schools. He should view the 
Massachusetts experience with card check as a cautionary tale.

The Employee 'Forced" Choice Act's other primary component is mandatory 
federal arbitration, which is just as troubling as the loss of the secret 
ballot.

Under EFCA, federal arbitrators would automatically intervene in contract 
negotiations exceeding just four months - an especially short time for 
employers seeking adequate representation in what can be complex 
proceedings. Arbitrators would impose a mandatory two-year contract not 
subject to approval by business owners or workers.

EFCA's arbitration rules would not simply deny choices to employers and 
employees. They could also make businesses uncompetitive and even unviable. 
Contracts set by outside government arbitrators would determine wages and 
benefits, and they could also set employee counts, determine business 
strategy, and more. This type of government intrusion in the workplace 
would not result in dynamic, job-creating businesses; in fact, it would be 
calamitous for our economy.

Labor unions play an important role in the American economy, and 
historically they have improved the lives of millions of workers. Today's 
labor laws already protect the rights of employees seeking union 
representation and bargaining collectively for contracts.

But the strength of unions must come from their membership. Making union 
elections less democratic and imposing contracts on unwilling businesses 
will not advance the cause of labor - or benefit rank-and-file employees.

As one of the newest members of Congress, Senator Bennet has the 
opportunity to bring a fresh perspective to Washington. EFCA is not an 
issue that should be decided on a strict party-line vote.

Working Americans and business owners are both Republicans and Democrats. 
Our nation's labor laws should encourage businesses, schools, and other 
institutions to succeed through collaboration and flexibility, not by 
placing new power and authority in the hands of Big Labor and the federal 
government at the expense of employers and employees.

Mitt Romney is the former Governor of Massachusetts. EDITOR'S NOTE: This is 
an online-only column and has not been edited.

