01/30/09 – Remarks to the House Republican Conference Retreat

 Tweet
 

As prepared by Mitt Romney for delivery to the House Republican Conference 
Retreat

Thank you for the warm welcome. And thank you for the vote you took this 
week. You stood strong. You stood for principle. You put the best interests 
of the American people ahead of politics. I got some calls yesterday, after 
the news. They said what I feel. We want you to know that we’re proud of 
you.

It sure feels good to be in a room full of Republicans who came out ahead 
on Election Day. You can be proud of your success. And don’t be afraid to 
remind the President of this: you, too, won your election.

After my own campaign was over, Ann and I just wanted to get away from it 
all. We ended up in Beijing, about as far away as you can get. We went to 
the Olympic Games, and one of the events we attended was women’s beach 
volleyball. I noticed a lot of people looking in our direction, pointing 
toward us and taking pictures. It’s always nice to be recognized, and I 
told Ann, let’s be sure to smile and look our best. Ann said, they might 
like us even more if we got out of the way—Kobe Bryant is standing right 
behind you.

A few months have passed since the election. It’s enough time to consider 
the outcome and take stock of our party’s future. I want to make clear that 
I’m optimistic: our ideas are good, our agenda will make America stronger, 
and your action this week showed that we have the kind of leaders who will 
stand up for what they believe in.

I have often been asked what I think the Republican Party must do to 
recover. What I’ve said is this: My first concern isn’t about our 
party—it’s about our country.

In fact, the two are closely related. The best way for us to advance the 
prospects of our party is to do what we know is right for the country. This 
is what the American people expect of us. And that’s what we should expect 
of ourselves.

This is a time of hardship and uncertainty for millions of Americans. The 
question is: whose leadership and ideas will turn things around. And in 
such a moment, it’s our job to offer the clear answers, the proven 
solutions, and resolute leadership that will make this country strong 
again.

The new President and the Congressional majority are having a difficult 
time doing that. After all, they have a lot of campaign rhetoric to make 
good on. And they’ve got plenty of special interests to pay back. As the 
opposition party, we’re entirely free to do what is right for the country. 
There are certain advantages to that kind of freedom, and I suggest we make 
the most of them.

That begins with a clear analysis of what’s needed to get the economy 
moving again. Predictions that we are almost out of the woods, based on the 
length of prior recessions, are wishful thinking. Americans have lost some 
11 trillion dollars in net worth. That translates into about 400 billion 
dollars less annual consumer spending in the economy.

There’s something else people don’t talk much about: The pool of investment 
capital—all the money available for new investments, business start-ups, 
business expansions, capital expenditures, and new hiring. The size of that 
pool has shrunk by trillions of dollars. This was a huge loss in value, and 
the effect could be felt for years—in businesses that don’t start up or 
grow, in jobs that don’t get created.

Given these extraordinary conditions, I am convinced that a stimulus is 
needed.

So why not just spend and borrow with reckless abandon? Because we’re in a 
very delicate situation that could easily get worse if Washington does the 
wrong thing. The package which passed the House is a huge increase in the 
amount of government borrowing. And we’ve borrowed so much already, that if 
we add too much more debt, or spend foolishly, we could invite an even 
bigger crisis. We could precipitate a worldwide crisis of confidence in 
America, leading to a run on the dollar … or hyper-inflation that wipes out 
family savings and devastates the middle class.

We’re on an economic tightrope. That’s why it is so important to exercise 
extreme care and good judgment.

So far, the Democratic leadership hasn’t shown a great deal of that. 
They’ve passed 355 billion in infrastructure spending, 60% of which won’t 
be spent by the end of 2010. Billions for electronic medical health 
records—it’s a fine idea, but it won’t produce jobs for years and years.

Even worse are the liberal payoffs—50 million dollars for the National 
Endowment for the Arts, hundreds of millions of dollars to the states for 
STD prevention and education. Until your loud protests got it dropped from 
the bill, there even was 200 million dollars for the DC Mall. That might 
have grown some grass, but it wouldn’t have grown the economy. And they’re 
doing this when the economy is on a tightrope.

It’s still early in the administration of President Obama. Like everyone 
who loves this country, I want him to adopt correct principles and then to 
succeed. He still has a chance to step in and insist on spending discipline 
among the members of his own party. It’s his job to set priorities. I hope 
for America’s sake that he knows that a Chief Executive can’t vote 
“present.” He can’t let others run the show. He has to say yes to some 
things and no to a lot of others.

We need to stimulate the economy, not the government. A true stimulus 
package, one that respects the productivity and genius of the American 
people, could lift this country out of recession. And experience shows us 
what it should look like.

First, there are two ways you can put money into the economy, by spending 
more or by taxing less. But if it’s stimulus you want, taxing less works 
best. That’s why permanent tax cuts should be the centerpiece of the 
economic stimulus. Even Christine Romer, the President’s own choice to lead 
the Council of Economic Advisors, found in her research that tax cuts are 
twice as effective as new spending.

Second, any new spending must be strictly limited to projects that are 
essential. How do we define essential? Well, a good rule is that the 
projects we fund in a stimulus should be legitimate government priorities 
that would have been carried out in the future anyway, and are simply being 
moved up to create those jobs now.

As we take out non-essential projects, we should focus on funding the real 
needs of government that will have immediate impact. And what better place 
to begin than repairing and replacing military equipment that was damaged 
or destroyed in Kuwait, Iraq and Afghanistan?

Third, sending out rebate checks to citizens and businesses is not a tax 
cut. The media bought this line so far, but they’ve got it wrong. Checks in 
the mail are refunds, not tax cuts. We tried rebate checks last year and 
they did virtually nothing to jump-start the economy. Disposable income 
went up, but consumption hardly moved. Businesses aren’t stupid. They’re 
not going to invest in equipment and new hires for a one time, short term 
blip.

You know, by proposing tax rebates, the Democrats are admitting that relief 
to families and employers works. Why can’t they shed their ideological bias 
and give the American people the kind of permanent, broad based tax relief 
that even they must know will relieve the suffering our country is going 
through?

Fourth, if we’re going to tax less and spend more to get the economy 
moving, then we have to make another commitment as well. As soon as this 
economy recovers, we have to regain control over the federal budget, and 
above all, over entitlement spending. This is more important than most 
people are willing to admit. I mentioned the economic tightrope before. 
There is a real danger that with trillions of additional borrowing—from the 
budget deficit and from the stimulus—that world investors will begin to 
fear that the dollars won’t be worth much in the future. They may fear 
hyper-inflation. It is essential that we demonstrate our commitment to 
maintaining the value of the dollar. That means showing the world that we 
will put a stop to runaway spending and borrowing. Senator Judd Gregg is 
rightly proposing a new bipartisan approach. It should be part of this 
bill.

Fifth, we must begin to recover from the enormous losses in the capital 
investment pool. And the surest, most obvious way to get that done is to 
send a clear signal that there will be no tax increases on investment and 
capital gains. The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts should be extended permanently, 
or at least temporarily.

And finally, let’s exercise restraint in the size of the stimulus package. 
Without restraint, it may grow as the days go by. Last year, with the 
economy already faltering, I proposed a stimulus of 233 billion dollars. 
The Washington Post said, and I quote: “Romney’s plan is way too big.” So 
what critique do they have for the size of the Democrat’s package? I’m 
afraid they’ve caught a bad case of liberal laryngitis. It’s everywhere 
these days.

In the final analysis, we know that only the private sector—entrepreneurs 
and businesses large and small—can create the millions of jobs our country 
needs. The invisible hand of the market always moves faster and better than 
the heavy hand of government.

The difference between us and the Democrats is this: they want to stimulate 
the government, and we want to stimulate the economy.

Government does have an obligation to address some of the abuses we’ve seen 
in the markets, particularly in the mortgage finance market and the 
mortgage guarantee sector. But when markets work as they should, when they 
are effectively and efficiently regulated, free markets create jobs and 
boost incomes.

As Republicans, we remain the confident voice of limited government and 
free enterprise. These principles are going to face another test when it 
comes to healthcare.

We should be first to propose a Republican plan to bring health insurance 
to all Americans, one based on market dynamics, free choice, and personal 
responsibility. I think what we did in Massachusetts is a good model to 
start from, but whatever direction we take, let’s not simply react to what 
the Democrats do. Their own plan would undoubtedly create a vast new system 
of costly entitlements and bureaucratic dictates, burdening the people and 
threatening the economy. Americans will be looking for a better 
alternative. Let’s give it to them.

Let’s also defend the rights of workers—against coercion and intimidation. 
The working people of this country should be able to unionize the way their 
fathers and mothers did – by free choice and secret ballot. The Democrats’ 
plan to take away those rights would result in economic calamity. More than 
that, it’s an insult to the dignity and common sense of working people. 
We’re going to defend the freedom of workers and the rights of labor. 
Interesting, isn’t it, which party stands up for workers and which one 
jumps for union bosses.

Ours is the party of freedom and enterprise, and we are the party of life. 
I know that I’m not alone in wondering why our new president, in the 
earliest hours of his administration, directed that international groups 
that promote and provide abortions be funded with American taxpayer 
dollars. Is that really what the world needs, more abortions?

In our party, we don’t have perfect agreement on the life issue. But with 
an administration that is firmly on the side of abortion, that answers to 
the most extreme wing of the abortion lobby, our duty is clear. We should 
be a voice for moderation and compassion. And even if the administration 
will say nothing on behalf of the child waiting to be born, we must take 
the side of life.

The new administration has also gained the favor of liberal commentators by 
pledging what it calls reform in the treatment of detainees who have taken 
up arms against America. And of course, President Obama says he will close 
Guantanamo.

But I wonder if he noticed that some of the men already released from 
Guantanamo have turned up in new al Qaeda tapes? I also wonder where the 
President now intends to send the terrorists we capture. Will he send them 
to nations that will release them to kill Americans? Or will he send them 
to US prisons, to infect our own criminal population?

There may be more steps like closing Guantanamo—and they will receive the 
predictable applause from law professors, editorial boards, and others who 
have no responsibility for protecting American lives. The Washington Post 
last week announced President Obama’s actions with this headline: “Bush’s 
War on Terror Comes to a Sudden End.” I hope this President knows that the 
terrorists are still fighting and killing Americans, and that they plan to 
keep killing Americans.

Here, too, our party will speak confidently. We have no greater duty than a 
vigilant defense.

This great party of ours has seen setbacks before. They have never defined 
us. For our party, I believe this will be remembered as the time when we 
demonstrated the strength of our convictions, when we defended the 
foundations of America’s prosperity, security and liberty.

America will be tested. It’s not for us to choose every new test that may 
arise. But we’re entirely free to choose how we will face those tests. 
We’ll face them as you did this week. And we’ll face them as Republicans 
have done before in our finest moments—with the clarity and the confidence 
of those who put their country first.

That is the work you have undertaken as Republican members of the 111th 
Congress. You gather in smaller numbers than last year, but you have ideas, 
energy, and convictions—and the resolve to lead America to a better future. 
The comeback for our nation and for our party starts with you. You can 
count me as an ally in the work ahead. Thank you.

