10/19/09 – 2009 AIPAC National Summit

 Tweet
 

Thank you, Ron. I appreciate your kind introduction. Ron was a great 
supporter of mine during my presidential campaign. I also want to take a 
moment to acknowledge my old friend Ed Levy, who was also most generous to 
support my campaign. And Ed’s attorney in Detroit is a partner with my 
brother Scott—the law firm is Honigman, Miller, Schwartz and Cohen. Scott 
is the token Mormon.

It is a pleasure to participate in this national summit. The work you do 
has always been important— working to make Israel more secure, ensuring 
that American support remains strong, and confirming that Israel and 
America stand shoulder-to-shoulder in an increasingly dangerous world. I 
believe that your work is about to become far more important. It is for 
that reason that I flew here today to speak with you.

* * * *

I have been to Israel twice – mostly recently in 2007. I came away 
encouraged by what I saw.

On that last trip, I traveled (with some of the people in this room) by 
helicopter to Al-Fay Menasha. It was to tour a strategic span in the 
security fence, standing between the center of Israel and the West Bank. It 
is at that point that one can see just how narrow the waist of Israel 
actually is.

I was struck during that tour by the IDF officer that was briefing us. He 
bent over backwards to explain how low and how unobtrusive the fence 
was—how much effort had been expended to keep it from being too imposing. 
At one point, I respectfully interrupted him to explain that he didn’t need 
to apologize…at least not to this American. Because if America lived in a 
neighborhood like Israel’s, with suicide bombers crossing into our country 
to kill children in school buses, we’d be building a fence that was higher, 
thicker and hard as concrete. Israel should be proud that it values the 
blood of its countrymen—of its children—above the approbation of foreign 
bureaucrats.

During my last trip, I was impressed with the business community. As you 
know, my career was in business, as a management consultant, a venture 
capitalist and as a private equity investor. While in Israel, we met with 
entrepreneurs and business people. Their ingenuity demonstrated why it is 
that Israel has the highest density of start-ups in the world, and more 
companies on NASDAQ than all of India, China, Korea, Japan, and Europe 
combined. I understand that there is talk among some European organizations 
about boycotting Israeli products and barring Israeli academics. If they 
do, they will be punishing themselves more than they hurt Israel. Brilliant 
innovation and technology have always been able to penetrate the walls 
built by the uninformed, protectionist and prejudiced, and they always 
will.

Most of all, I was impressed with the people of Israel. That people 
actually immigrate to Israel, rather than fleeing from the threatening and 
violent neighborhood of the Middle East, is a testament to their courage, 
faith and character. It is an inspiration to an often self-indulgent world.

* * * *

America and Israel are bound together by common commitments and shared 
values. We believe in representative democracy and human rights. We believe 
in the rule of law--in learning, scholarship, and free inquiry. We believe 
in the dignity of the human soul and in its God-given right to ascend above 
government domination… with freedom to speak, worship, associate and think 
as one desires.

And because we share the same values, we also share many of the same 
adversaries. We reject oppression, terrorism, authoritarianism. Violent 
Jihadists have referred to America as the “great Satan” and to Israel as 
the “little Satan.” Of course, they don’t recognize the irony, committed as 
they are to the imposition of power over others, to violence, to brutality, 
to the subjugation of women and girls and to bigotry and racism.

Israel has been fighting all of these things from the moment it was born. 
As the United States carries on that fight in countries scattered across 
the globe, we know that Israel is America’s most ardent ally in the Middle 
East.

The world is fast becoming a more dangerous place. Liberty and peace are 
threatened in new and frightful ways. Russia is returning to its 
authoritarian ways, fueled by its energy stranglehold on Europe. China has 
married the power of free enterprise with the oppression of Communist rule. 
Violent Jihadists are fighting to crush people and nations across the 
globe. And rogue nations with maniacal autocrats are recklessly pursuing 
nuclear capabilities that puts the world in jeopardy. Left unchecked, a 
nuclear race will be joined by many, many others.

For all these reasons, America needs strong allies.
This is one reason why I am so very concerned by the current drift in our 
government’s relationship with Israel.

In pursuit of a peace process, the United States today has exerted 
substantial pressure on Israel while putting almost no pressure on the 
Palestinians and the Arab world.

Consider how little we ask of the Arab world. Why is it that only Egypt and 
Jordan have peace agreements with Israel? What about Saudi Arabia? The 
Saudi government will not even sit in the same room as the Israelis, let 
alone normalize relations or work towards a realistic peace agreement. In 
2007, at the height of the Olmert-Abbas peace track, the Saudis were 
demanding that more U.S. companies comply with their boycott of Israel.

Israel, on the other hand, has repeatedly demonstrated its commitment to a 
lasting and realistic peace. As you know well, in 2005, for example, Israel 
handed over the Gaza strip to the Palestinians. This generous, unilateral 
act was met in return with rockets fired into Israel, with a coup by Hamas 
in Gaza, and with two wars – one on the Lebanese border and another in 
Gaza.

Inexplicably, the United States now places the burden on Israel to make 
still more unilateral concessions. At the United Nations, we decried the 
building of new Israeli settlements but ignored the launching of 
Palestinian rockets. How is this possible? Have we not yet learned from the 
concessions in Gaza, as well as from all recorded history, that giving in 
to the demands of oppressors always and only leads to more demands, not to 
peace?

We can encourage both parties in the conflict, but we must never forget 
which one is our ally. Nor must we forget that Hamas, like other violent 
Jihadists, does not have a two-state solution as its objective—it has the 
conquest and annihilation of Israel as its objective. The notion that Hamas 
and violent Jihadists are motivated by “shared interests” and “common 
goals” is naïve in the extreme and dangerous to the entire free world.

This is one reason why America must never cede to the United Nations our 
commitment to Israel, our leadership of the free world and our defense of 
liberty. I will happily agree that the UN has done some good in its 
history. But I will also insist that it has also done terrible damage to 
the causes it claims to uphold. And on no issue has it been more 
irresponsible and morally reckless than when considering the fate of 
Israel.

Time and time again, the UN has become a forum for invective against the 
Jewish state. We saw it in 1975, when the UN passed an anti-Semitic 
resolution that condemned Israel as racist. And we have seen it in just the 
last few weeks, when the UN gave a platform to a Holocaust-denier who has 
pledged over and over again that he will wipe out Israel. It was a 
grotesque moment and another stain on the reputation of the United Nations. 
And congratulations to Prime Minister Netanyahu for having the moral 
courage to say what needed to be said to those members of the United 
Nations who stayed to listen to Mahmoud Achmadinejad—”Have you no shame!”

But the outrage did not stop there. A report, titled "United Nations Fact 
Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict," was the latest in a long line of 
infamous acts. The so-called Goldstone Report took Israel to task for 
defending itself after being pummeled by more than 7,000 missiles fired on 
Israel by Hamas. Hamas not only was targeting innocent civilians -- it was 
also using innocent Palestinians as human shields. Israel took 
extraordinary measures to prevent civilian casualties. Yet who did the UN 
Human Rights Council see fit to condemn? Israel. Again, the words of Prime 
Minister Netanyahu, "A democracy legitimately defending itself against 
terror is morally hanged, drawn and
quartered, and given an unfair trial to boot."

A world in which America is more attuned to the approbation of the United 
Nations than to its ally Israel is a world in peril. May this never be so.

* * * *

My concern extends to our entire foreign policy. If the U.S. Government 
engages tyrannies and autocracies – countries like Iran and North Korea, 
Syria and Russia, Sudan and Zimbabwe – based on the conviction that we are 
dealing with common interests more than competing interests, it will not 
end well.

Dean Acheson, President Truman’s Secretary of State, offered wise and 
timely counsel. Following the 2nd World War, America had recognized that 
not every power on this planet shared our goals and values. And this 
realization is what shaped the foreign policy that has guided us for 60 or 
so years. Truman, he said, had been “released from the acceptance of a 
dogma that builders and wreckers of a new world order could and should work 
happily and successfully together, [Truman] was free to combine our power 
and coordinate our action with those who did have a common purpose.”

Our approach to international relations must continue to adhere to the 
vision of Truman and Acheson. First, we should treat our allies like the 
allies they are. That means, for starters, not being harder on them, or 
demanding more from them, than we do from our adversaries. It means 
treating them with respect rather than offense. It means striving to make 
their lives easier rather than harder.
In short, we should honor the basic rules that govern state-to-state 
affairs. “Foreign policy commitments are not to be made and unmade at 
will,” Margaret Thatcher once said. “We cannot expect others to keep their 
word to us, unless we keep our word to them.”

Keeping our word to our allies is a matter of honor, but it is also a 
matter of self-interest. The United States needs allies for economic, 
political, and national security reasons. Good allies and strong alliances 
allow us to share the burdens we carry, complement and supplement our 
efforts, and present a united front against those who wish us harm.

When we treat any ally in a desultory manner – and especially if we act in 
a way that causes them to question our reliability, our resolve, our 
commitment and staying power – then they as well as our other allies, all 
of whom are watching very closely, will turn to others for their security.

When Poland and the Czech Republic are humiliated by us, they lose 
confidence in America’s support for them, and they may decide that they 
must incline more toward Russia.

If our friends in Latin America like Colombia become convinced that we are 
turning our back on them, they may feel compelled to become more 
accommodative to Hugo Chavez.

If Japan believes the United States is weakening its commitment in the 
Pacific, it may distance itself from America and draw closer to China.

When defenders of democracy and the rule of constitution and law in 
Honduras find that we have sided with their pro-Chavez illegal opposition, 
freedom fighters across the world, re-calculate their chances for success.
And if Arab nations believe that we will accommodate Iran’s ambition to 
dominate the Middle East with nuclear weapons, they will move closer to 
that very nation.

Whenever or wherever America steps away from one of its friends and allies, 
or shrinks in the face of belligerent tyrants, those who are allied with us 
may understandably or inevitably step closer to our foes. The advance of 
human rights and the defense of liberty demand that America stands firm 
with its allies—all of them.

* * * *
I now want to say more about Iran. The Iranian leadership is the greatest 
immediate threat to the world since the fall of the Soviet Union, and 
before that, Nazi Germany.

Mr. Ahmadinejad, has gone well beyond the boundary of outrage -- beginning 
with his calculated desecration of history. When he denies the Holocaust, 
he could care less about history. His point is about the present and the 
future. His purpose is not merely to deny the Holocaust, but also to deny 
Israel. He is testing the waters. He wants to know who will object. And how 
they will register their objection.

The Iranian regime threatens not only Israel, but also every other nation 
in the region, and ultimately the world. It is a repressive regime… an 
intractable enemy of liberty and human rights… the world’s leading sponsor 
of terrorism and subversive war. The threat it poses to the world would 
take on an entirely new dimension if Iran were allowed to become a nuclear 
power.

Earlier this month, senior staff members of the U.N. nuclear agency 
concluded in a confidential analysis that Iran has acquired “sufficient 
information to be able to design and produce a workable” atom bomb. We also 
learned of a previously secret, illegal uranium enrichment facility that 
the Iranians had been hiding near Qom.

A nuclear Iran would be a tipping point in the proliferation of nuclear 
regimes.

It is beyond the scope of this address to provide a detailed tactical and 
strategic approach to Iran, as I endeavored to do at the Herzylia 
conference two years ago. In that address, I detailed the six critical 
steps that would have to immediately be taken to dissuade Iran from nuclear 
folly. Not a single one of them has been taken by America.

At this late stage I would simply say that it is long past time for America 
to recognize the nature of the regime we are dealing with. The Iranian 
regime is unalloyed evil, run by people who are at once ruthless and 
fanatical. Stop thinking that a charm offensive will talk the Iranians out 
of their pursuit of nuclear weapons. It will not. And agreements, 
unenforceable and unverifiable, will have no greater impact here than they 
did in North Korea. Once an outstretched hand is met with a clenched fist, 
it becomes a symbol of weakness and impotence. President Eisenhower said it 
well: “the care of freedom is not long entrusted to the weak and timid.”

The President of the United States can employ his admiration and good will 
to actually accomplish something meaningful and real in Iran– 
comprehensive, withering sanctions, diplomatic isolation, and international 
support for the forces of freedom within Iran. The people of Iran represent 
a major source of strength. By and large, they have not been radicalized by 
their government and clerics; in fact, the regime’s effort to crush the 
uprising against it has only alienated the people of Iran. They fear 
economic stagnation and they hate political repression. Most are not 
seeking a military confrontation with the West. Indeed, most want greater 
engagement with the West.

And the military option must remain on the table – and that threat needs to 
be credible. Unfortunately– for reasons that are unfathomable to me – our 
Government has signaled that the military option is effectively off the 
table. How can that be countenanced when an ally of the United States faces 
an existential threat?

I don’t pretend for a moment that the course of action to take with Iran is 
easy or obvious; there are costs to anything we do – but there are even 
greater costs if we do nothing at all. If we allow Iran under the rule of 
the mullahs to get a nuclear weapon, it will make the problems America 
faces today look like a walk in the park.
The clock is ticking, with no real progress to show for the precious time 
that has already lapsed.
* * * *

Earlier I mentioned President Truman. I’d like to end my remarks by 
recounting a remarkable day in the history of our two nations, as told by 
Michael Oren – Israel’s ambassador to the United States.

He tells how word of Israel’s birth reached Washington on May 14, 1948. At 
that moment, the armies of Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, and Iraq were mobilizing 
for war against the nascent state. The question on everyone’s mind was 
whether the United States would recognize this new nation of Israel and its 
self-proclaimed government.

Alone in the White House, with much of the world and many in his own 
Administration against recognizing Israel, Truman pondered the 
ramifications of his decision. At eleven minutes past six in the evening, 
an administration spokesman appeared before reporters at the White House. 
“This Government has been informed that a Jewish state has been proclaimed 
in Palestine and that recognition has been requested by the provisional 
government thereof.” Then, reading from a printed text, understating the 
momentousness of his message, the spokesman said, “The United States 
recognizes the provisional government as the de facto authority of the 
State of Israel.”

Truman never regretted his decision or the key role he played in mid-wifing 
the birth of the Jewish state. He understood how on every level – moral and 
geopolitical, cultural and historical – it was right for America to stand 
with Israel.

Harry S. Truman was a wise and courageous president, a person of 
unshakeable principles, and a man who helped bend history in the direction 
of justice. Truman was a great president – in part because he was deeply 
committed to our friends, to our national character, and to the State of 
Israel. As it was, let us hope it shall be again.

Thank you very much.

