12/02/2009 – Mr. President, Here’s How to Lift Our Economy

 Tweet
 

A complete re-posting of Mitt Romney’s 12/2/2009 Op-ed posted at USA Today
 
:

    Today's White House jobs summit comes too late for millions of
    Americans who through no fault of their own have lost their jobs, their
    homes, their savings and, in many cases, the self-esteem and
    self-respect that come from work. Like other presidents before him,
    Barack Obama inherited a recession. But unlike them, he has made it
    worse, not better.

    His failure to stem the unemployment tide should not have been a
    surprise. With no experience whatsoever in the world of employment and
    business formation, he had no compass to guide his path. Instead, he
    turned over much of his economic recovery agenda to House Speaker Nancy
    Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, themselves nearly as
    inexperienced in the private sector as he. Congress gave him and them
    everything they asked for, including a history-making three-quarters of
    a trillion dollar stimulus.

    But it did little to stimulate the real economy – where jobs are
    created. Studies, initiatives and programs that liberal think tanks had
    long pined for were given life even as the private economy was on life
    support. The president's team assured us that their massive stimulus
    would hold unemployment below 8%. So with unemployment now at 10.2%, it
    is clear that their stimulus was a miscalculated failure.

    In an attempt to disguise the truth, the administration has touted
    inflated figures of jobs "created."But every month, in good times and
    bad, jobs are created and jobs are lost. What matters is the net
    difference between the two numbers. Focusing solely on jobs created
    while ignoring the far greater numbers of jobs lost is Harry Houdini
    economics.

    Growing government, as was done with the stimulus, inevitably depresses
    the private sector and job creation. Shrinking government and reducing
    government jobs is healthier for the economy, but this option was never
    seriously considered. That's no wonder: As White House guest logs for
    the first half of the year reveal, the most frequent visitor to the
    executive mansion was Andy Stern, the head of the Service Employees
    International Union, which represents government workers.

    My 10-point plan

    The president's economists insist that technically, the recession is
    over. But double-digit unemployment was neither prevented nor has it
    ended. To get people back to work as rapidly as possible and to restore
    America's economic vitality, the nation must change course. Here's the
    advice I would give:

    •Repair the stimulus. Freeze the funds that haven't yet been spent and
    redirect them to immediate, private sector job-creation priorities.

    •Create tax incentives that promote business expansion and hiring. For
    example, install a robust investment tax credit, permit businesses to
    expense capital purchases made in 2010, and reduce payroll taxes. These
    will reignite construction, technology and a wide array of capital
    goods industries, and lead to expanded employment.

    •Prove to the global investors that finance America's debt that we are
    serious about reining in spending and becoming fiscally prudent by
    adopting limits on non-military discretionary spending and reforming
    our unsustainable, unfunded entitlements. These are key to
    strengthening the dollar, reducing the threat of rampant inflation and
    holding down interest rates.

    •Close down any talk of carbon cap-and-trade. It will burden consumers
    and employers with billions in new costs. Instead, greatly expand our
    commitment to natural gas and nuclear, boosting jobs now and reducing
    the export of energy jobs and dollars later.

    •Tell the unions that job-stifling "card check" legislation is off the
    table. Laying new burdens on small business will kill entrepreneurship
    and job creation.

    •Don't allow a massive tax increase to go into effect in 2011 with the
    expiration of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. The specter of more
    tax-fueled government spending and the reduction of capital available
    for small business will hinder investment and business expansion.

    •New spending should be strictly limited to items that are critically
    needed and that we would have acquired in the future, such as new
    military equipment to support our troops abroad and essential
    infrastructure at home.

    •Install dynamic regulations for the financial sector – rules that are
    up to date, efficient and not excessively burdensome. But do not so tie
    up the financial sector with red tape that we lose a vital component of
    our economic system.

    •Open the doors to trade. Give important friends like Colombia favored
    trade status rather than bow to protectionist demands. Now is the time
    for aggressive pursuit of opportunities for new markets for American
    goods, not insular retrenchment.

    •Stop frightening the private sector by continuing to hold GM stock, by
    imposing tighter and tighter controls on compensation, and by pursuing
    a public insurance plan to compete with private insurers. Government
    encroachment on free enterprise is depressing investment and job
    creation.

    The 10% unemployment crisis hangs like an albatross around President
    Obama's neck. Eventually, as with every recession and recovery, the
    economy will improve and jobs will be created, but those who were
    unnecessarily unemployed due to the president's faulty economic program
    will not forget. In order to most rapidly re-employ all Americans and
    to speed a strong recovery, the president must change course. If he
    does not, Republicans will bring a change of their own to Washington in
    the 2010 elections.

Mitt Romney, former governor of Massachusetts, was a Republican 
presidential candidate last year.

