03/17/2009 – The President is Missing the Long-Term Effects of His Policies

 Tweet
 

Mitt Romney's op-ed The President is Missing the Long-Term Effect of His 
Policies was published in the Washington Examiner
 
on 03/17/2009.

President Barack Obama’s actions on the economy have had the opposite 
effect than what was intended. His address to Congress was meant to restore 
confidence; instead, consumers retreated and investors sold.

His Treasury Secretary’s bank plan was meant to settle uncertainty; instead 
it added to it. Every speech, every interview, and every initiative has 
caused investors in America to recoil.

With consumer confidence plummeting to its lowest level in history and the 
stock market falling 20% since his taking office, it’s clear that something 
is wrong.
I believe it is that so far, Barack Obama has focused on the short term, on 
what I refer to as the first order effects of his policies. That initially 
plays well with some in the media and with the public at large. But 
investors are looking to see what the impact will be down the road. They 
don’t like what they see. President Obama’s economic policies fail to take 
into account second and third order effects.

In the president’s first address to Congress, he announced plans for a 
trillion-dollar health care plan and to take responsibility for a child 
from birth to its first job—universal healthcare, universal pre-school and 
universal higher education. To a lot of people, that sounds pretty good.

But look at the consequences: a budget that grows discretionary spending by 
a whopping 12%, that produces trillion-dollar deficits and that means much 
more borrowing from the Chinese and others. We may be approaching the 
tipping point where people who are lending us all that money will begin to 
worry about what the dollar will be worth in the future.

President Obama’s excessive spending and borrowing could precipitate a 
crisis of confidence in our currency and lead to hyper-inflation, 
evaporating what is left of family savings and wiping out the middle class.

The President’s cap-and-trade plan also ignores second order effects. By 
placing a trillion dollar energy burden on companies that do business here 
and without requiring China and India and others to sign on, 
energy-intensive companies will move.

Emissions will grow in China even as they decline—along with jobs—here in 
the US. Even those who are worried about carbon emissions don’t call it 
America warming—they call it global warming.

The President’s corporate tax plan makes the same error. He proposes to tax 
multi-national companies that “export jobs to other countries.” Sounds good 
on the surface.
But American companies that have subsidiaries doing business in other 
countries already pay taxes there; making them pay higher US taxes will 
make them uncompetitive in those markets and cost jobs here. And the 
multinationals themselves will simply relocate outside the US. The result 
will not be more jobs and more tax revenue as the President claims, but 
less.

The administration intends to sharply raise taxes on all investment income: 
interest, dividends and capital gains. But the pool of risk capital that 
finances new jobs and new businesses has already been shrunk by trillions 
of dollars; raising the tax on investment will shrink it further, depress 
job creation and result in less government revenue.

Even the President’s mortgage plan fails to adequately consider its long 
term consequences. By requiring investors and lenders to reduce the 
principal amount of their loan and by enabling bankruptcy judges to 
re-write mortgages, investors in the future will demand higher mortgage 
interest rates to compensate for their higher risk. Housing will suffer, as 
will responsible borrowers.

Perhaps the most disconcerting aspect of the President’s proposals is that 
they appear to be taking America down the very path of big government, big 
spending and big borrowing that got us in so much trouble in the first 
place.

By ignoring the second order consequences of his policies, the President is 
deepening and lengthening this recession. He inherited a recession, yes, 
but he is making it worse.

There is still time to limit the damage caused by the President’s policies. 
Republicans and “blue dog” Democrats need to insist on fiscal discipline. 
Expanding health insurance and improving education can be achieved without 
massive new federal spending.

Taxes should not be raised. Energy policy must not penalize America. 
Entitlements must be reformed. And a half a trillion dollar deficit in four 
years, which rises every year thereafter, must be rejected. It is 
unacceptable as a budget; it is unthinkable as a goal.

In times like these, America needs leaders with vision—men and women who 
see beyond the immediate, who understand and appreciate the importance of 
looking beyond today’s horizon.

President Obama has the opportunity to be that kind of leader. But that 
will only happen if he and his administration put aside their nearsighted, 
liberal agenda and focus on America’s future.

Mitt Romney is the former governor of Massachusetts.

