11/19/2009 – The Cost of On-the-Job Training

 Tweet
 

This op-ed by Mitt Romney appeared online at Politico
 on 11/19/2009. It is 
entitled - The cost of on-the-job training.

During the presidential campaign, many Americans thought that Barack 
Obama’s lack of leadership experience would not prevent him from being an 
effective president. His eloquence, his insistence that, yes, he could 
solve any problem and his image, so artfully crafted by his advertising 
team, led by David Axelrod, convinced many that hope could trump 
demonstrated ability. It has not. Nowhere is the evidence more apparent 
than in his mismanagement of the conflict in Afghanistan.

In March, not long after taking office, President Obama explained his 
convictions regarding the conflict. He charged that “the terrorists who 
planned and supported the Sept. 11 attacks are in Pakistan and 
Afghanistan.” Further, “if the Afghan government falls to the Taliban, that 
country will again be a base for terrorists who want to kill as many of our 
people as they possibly can.” And he concluded: “To succeed, we and our 
friends and allies must reverse the Taliban’s gains and promote a more 
capable and accountable Afghan government.” What followed this bold and 
definitive goal was the classic failing of people without real leadership 
experience: the inability to do what is necessary to achieve one’s 
objective.

The president refused to focus on what was most important. He took on so 
many tasks that he underinvested in the most critical ones. The 
restructuring of the entire health care system and his cap-and-trade 
proposal eclipsed the economy and the war. Investor Warren Buffett, the 
“sage of Omaha,” counseled him against such a foolhardy agenda, but 
Buffett’s wisdom was no match for the heady prospect of all-encompassing 
change.

So it was that in the first 100 days after his appointment in June of Gen. 
Stanley McChrystal as commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, 
Obama met with the general only once. After the press took note of it, the 
president squeezed in a mere 25 minutes for McChrystal when he was in 
Copenhagen to pitch Chicago’s Olympics bid. In the annals of American 
history, it is certain that no wartime president has ever spent less time 
with his generals than Obama has.

A full year after being elected, Obama still does not have a strategy for 
Afghanistan. His apologists explain that rather than rush a decision, it is 
better to get it right. But at some point, deliberation, if it goes on too 
long, becomes indecision. It is fair to ask, What has he been doing for the 
past 12 months that took precedence over his responsibility for our 
soldiers?

The answer is that he made 30 or more campaign trips for the Democratic 
Party and its candidates, including five events for defeated New Jersey 
Gov. Jon Corzine alone. He repeatedly traveled around the country to 
keynote campaign-style town hall meetings that were carefully choreographed 
by his communications advisers. He appears to want to do what he knows 
best: campaign, rather than engage in what he was elected to do — lead and 
govern.

While he was busy campaigning in the U.S., the president ignored the 
election in Afghanistan and took wholly inadequate measures to ensure a 
valid outcome, even as he must have known that a legitimate government was 
essential to our success. Because Obama left so critical a matter to 
chance, we are left with a fraudulently elected regime, which is accused of 
rampant corruption. Thus, the prospects for our success have been greatly 
diminished.

With the McChrystal report in his hands since August, the president has 
finally been spending more time in the situation room. Surely his 
deliberations have not been speeded by the presence of Axelrod, the 
president’s campaign adman. Polls, politics and perspectives on what the TV 
networks may think have no place at the national security table. 
Communications staff should be informed of security decisions after they 
are made, not invited to be a party to them.

During my career in business and government, and in running the Olympics, I 
made many instructive mistakes and learned the lessons that come with 
experience. Obama is making those mistakes in his first real leadership 
position, and because that position is president of the United States, the 
consequences of his mistakes are sobering. The lives of our soldiers, the 
war against violent jihadism and the future of millions of Afghans are in 
the balance.

