05/02/2009 – Healthcare: The Answer is Unleashing Markets – Not Government

 Tweet
 

The following policy op-ed by Mitt Romney appeared in Newsweek
 on 05/02/2009. It is entitled 
The Answer is Unleashing Markets - Not Government.

I hear loud and clear from people in my state, and from across the country, 
what they want to see in health care. They want it to cost less, have the 
highest quality and see that it extends to all Americans—even when they 
lose their job or when they're sick. Republicans agree. So do Democrats. 
Where we disagree is how to get the job done.

Our divide is fundamental: Republicans believe health care can be best 
guided by consumers, physicians and markets; Democrats believe government 
would do better. Some Democrats would have government buy health care for 
us; set the rates for doctors, hospitals and medicines; and decide what 
medical treatment we would be entitled to receive for each illness. If you 
liked the HMOs of the '80s, you'd love government-run health care.

Democrats have been winning. When President Lyndon Johnson signed the 
Medicaid bill, he estimated it would cost $500 million. Today, it costs 
$500 billion. Politicians have expanded government coverage to more and 
more people. They propose that we adopt European-style, government-financed 
health care. But, in some respects, they've already gotten us there: the 
government now spends more per citizen on health care than do the 
governments of France, Germany, the United Kingdom or Sweden.

But government can't match consumers and markets when it comes to lowering 
cost, improving quality and boosting productivity. Compare the U.S. Postal 
Service with UPS and Federal Express. Stack North Korea against South 
Korea.

The right answer for health care is to apply more market force, not less. 
Here's how:

1. Get everyone insured. Help low-income households retain or purchase 
private insurance with a tax credit, voucher or coinsurance. Use the tens 
of billions we now give hospitals for free care to instead help people buy 
and keep their own private insurance. For the uninsured who can afford 
insurance but expect to be given free care at the hospital, require them to 
either pay for their own care or buy insurance; if they do neither, they 
would forgo the tax credit or lose a deduction. No more "free riders." This 
is the basic plan I proposed in Massachusetts. It has worked: 360,000 
previously uninsured citizens now have private health insurance. The total 
number of uninsured has been reduced by almost 75 percent. The 
Massachusetts plan costs the state more than expected, largely because the 
legislature has been unwilling to further reduce state payments to 
hospitals for free care. The costs should be brought in line by eliminating 
these payments, by requiring sustainable copremiums and by removing 
coverage mandates (for example, every policy is now required to include 
unlimited in vitro fertilization procedures).

2. Make health insurance affordable and portable. Eliminate the tax 
discrimination against consumers who purchase insurance on their own. This, 
plus getting everyone insured, will sharply lower insurance costs (in 
Massachusetts, the premium for a single male has declined by almost 50 
percent). The result: Americans wouldn't have to worry that their insurance 
would be unaffordable or canceled if they changed or lost a job.

3. Give people an incentive to care how expensive and how good their 
health-care treatment will be. Learn from the French and Swiss experience 
with coinsurance, where the insured pays a given percent of the entire 
bill, up to some upper limit. Unlike a deductible, where there is no cost 
to the insured once a threshold has been reached, coinsurance means that 
the insured continues to care about cost.

4. Provide citizens with information about the cost and quality of 
providers and the effectiveness of alternative treatments. This 
transparency, when it's combined with a meaningful personal financial 
incentive, will help health care work more like a consumer market.

5.Reform Medicare and Medicaid, likewise applying market principles to 
lower cost and improve patient care.

6. Center reforms at the state level. Open the door to state plans designed 
to meet the various needs of their citizens. Before imposing a 
one-size-fits-all federal program, let the states serve as "the 
laboratories of democracy."

Republicans have introduced bills in Washington that promote these and 
other consumer-driven policies. In every one, the patient and doctor guide 
care, not the government—and that makes all the difference.

Romney is a former governor of Massachusetts.

