06/02/09 – Obama, Hold Apology. World Owes U.S. Thanks

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was published at the Boston Herald

Obama, Hold Apology. World Owes U.S. Thanks


By Mitt Romney
June 2, 2009

Just a few days from now, we will mark the 65th anniversary of D-Day. I’m 
sure some of you have been to Normandy. I have. I saw the acre upon acre of 
crosses and stars that mark the resting place of those who gave the last 
full measure of devotion to their country’s cause. They were sent by an 
awakened American nation to liberate a continent. In the shadow of World 
War II’s desolation, they resolutely shouldered the burden of defending 
freedom.

That burden did not end with that war. Because of what America did in the 
20th century, there are hundreds of millions of people around the world who 
now live in freedom - who, but for the price paid by the United States, 
would have lived in despair. I know of no other such example of national 
selflessness. That is why America is the hope of the earth.

That is also why I take issue with President Barack Obama’s recent tour of 
apology. It’s not because America hasn’t made mistakes - we have - but 
because America’s mistakes are overwhelmed by what America has meant to the 
hopes and aspirations of people throughout the world.

The president claimed on Arabic TV that America has dictated to other 
nations. No, America has sacrificed to free other nations from dictators. 
With all that is transpiring in the world - in Iran, North Korea, Georgia, 
Somalia, Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan - this is the time for strength and 
confidence, not for apologizing to America’s critics.

North Korea has made it clear that it is not only intent on perfecting 
nuclear weapons, but it is contemptuous of the concerns of the U.S. and the 
world at large. They executed their nuclear test to coincide with Memorial 
Day. The on-again, off-again talks have been nothing but stalling 
maneuvers. While diplomats celebrate yet another agreement, North Korea 
continues down the nuclear path Kim Jong-Il has long pursued.

Tyrants can not be stopped by earnest words and furrowed brows. Action, 
strong bold action coming from a position of strength and determination, is 
the only effective deterrent.

It is time to apply comprehensive, regime-crippling sanctions to North 
Korea. Assets should be seized; international financial capabilities 
terminated. North Korea should be recategorized as a state sponsor of 
terror. And, most importantly, the president should reverse his recent 
decisions and support completing our ballistic missile defense system.

Missile defense is a non-nuclear, entirely defensive system designed to 
protect not just America but the world from a catastrophic attack. Yet the 
president plans to cut the missile defense budget by 15 percent, cut 
funding for missile defense sites in Europe by 80 percent and reduce the 
number of planned interceptors in Alaska. That is a grave miscalculation, 
given the provocations from North Korea, Iran’s near-nuclear status, 
Pakistan’s instability and the complete failure of the Non-Proliferation 
Treaty.

Rarely in history has any development carried such awful possibilities as a 
nuclear-armed missile in the hands of evil men. And rarely in history has 
any program had the promise to do more good or spare more suffering than a 
system of missile defense. This is too big an issue for ideology or 
politics to prevail over national security.

