04/21/2009 – A Timid Advocate of Freedom (Barack Obama)

 Tweet
 

A Timid Advocate of Freedom - President Obama has failed his early 
foreign-policy tests was written by Mitt Romney for National Review Online
 
(NRO) on 04/21/2009.

At last week’s Summit of the Americas, President Obama acquiesced to a 
50-minute attack on America as terroristic, expansionist, and 
interventionist from Nicaraguan president Daniel Ortega. His response to 
Ortega’s denunciation of our effort to free Cuba from Castro’s dictatorship 
was that he shouldn’t be blamed “for things that happened when I was three 
months old.” Blamed? Hundreds of men, including Americans, bravely fought 
and died for Cuba’s freedom, heeding the call from newly elected president 
John F. Kennedy. But last week, even as American soldiers sacrificed blood 
in Afghanistan and Iraq to defend liberty, President Obama shrank from 
defending liberty here in the Americas.

In his first press interview as president, he confessed to Arabic 
television that America had “dictated” to other nations. No, Mr. President, 
America has fought to free other nations from dictators. And in Strasbourg, 
the president further claimed that America has “showed arrogance and been 
dismissive, even derisive.” London’s Daily Telegraph observed that 
President Obama “went further than any United States president in history 
in criticizing his own country’s action while standing on foreign soil.” Of 
course, it was not just the Daily Telegraph that was listening: People 
around the world who yearn for freedom, who count on America’s resolve and 
support, heard him as well. He was heard in China, in Tibet, in Sudan, in 
Burma, and, yes, in Cuba.

The words spoken by the leader of the free world can expand the frontiers 
of freedom or shrink them. When Ronald Reagan called on Gorbachev to “tear 
down this wall,” a surge of confidence rose that would ultimately breach 
the bounds of the evil empire. It was the same confidence that had been 
ignited decades earlier when John F. Kennedy declared to a people 
surrounded by Communism that they were not alone. “We are all Berliners,” 
he said, because “freedom is indivisible, and when one man is enslaved, all 
are not free.” Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s confident commitment, spoken as 
he led us into the war that would free millions in Europe, inspired not 
only Americans but freedom fighters around the globe: “The American people 
in their righteous might will win through to absolute victory.” Such words 
of solidarity, of confidence, and of unwavering conviction that America is 
indeed “the last best hope on earth” are what freedom’s friends would have 
expected to hear from our president when our nation was slandered. Instead 
he offered silence, smiles, and a handshake.

Even more troubling than what he has or has not said is what he has not 
done. Kim Jong Il launched a long-range missile on the very day President 
Obama addressed the world about the peril of nuclear proliferation. As one 
of the world’s most oppressive and tyrannical regimes is on the brink of 
securing the “game changing” capability to reach American shores with a 
nuclear weapon, the president shrinks from action: no seizure of North 
Korean funds, no severance of banking access, no blockade.

Not to be outdone by Kim Jong Il, President Ahmadinejad announced that his 
nation has successfully mastered every step necessary to enrich uranium, 
violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty it has signed. So, like 
North Korea, Iran will have changed the world’s equation for peace and 
security: It will be capable of devastating Europe and America, and of 
annihilating Israel. And as with North Korea, the Obama administration 
chooses inaction — no new severe sanctions, no hint of military options. 
Ahmadinejad can act with confidence that the forceful options once on our 
proverbial table have been shelved.

Vice President Biden was right that the new president would be tested early 
in his administration. What the world learned was not good news for freedom 
and democracy. The leader of the free world has been a timid advocate of 
freedom at best. And bold action to blunt the advances of tyrants has been 
wholly lacking. We are still very early in the Obama years — the president 
will have ample opportunity to defend America and freedom, and to deter 
nuclear brinkmanship. I am hoping for change.

Mitt Romney, formerly the governor of Massachusetts, was a candidate for 
the Republican presidential nomination in 2008.

