12/14/10 Ð Romney: Tax Deal, Bad Deal

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was published by USA Today

Romney: Tax Deal, Bad Deal


By Mitt Romney
December 14, 2010

Death and taxes, it is said, are life's only two certainties. But in the 
wake of President Obama's tax compromise with congressional Republicans, 
only death retains the status of certainty: The future for taxes has been 
left up in the air. And uncertainty is not a friend of investment, growth 
and job creation.
The deal has several key features. It reduces payroll taxes, extends 
unemployment benefits and keeps current tax rates intact. So far, so good. 
But intermixed with the benefits are considerable costs of consequence. 
Given the unambiguous message that the American people sent to Washington 
in November, it is difficult to understand how our political leaders could 
have reached such a disappointing agreement. The new, more conservative 
Congress should reach a better solution.

The deal keeps current tax rates from rising to pre-Bush era levels for two 
years. But in 2013, unless Congress acts again, rates will increase 
dramatically.

Extension temporary

Of course, delay now is better than an immediate tax hike. But because the 
extension is only temporary, a large portion of the investment and job 
growth that characteristically accompanies low taxes will be lost. When 
entrepreneurs and employers make decisions to start or expand an 
enterprise, uncertainty about tax rates translates directly into a reduced 
propensity to invest and to hire. With only a two-year extension, investors 
know that before their returns are realized, tax rates may be jacked up to 
the levels favored by President Obama. So while the tax deal will succeed 
in temporarily putting more money in the hands of consumers, it will fail 
to deliver its full potential for creating lasting growth.

It will also add to the deficit. In many cases, lowering taxes can actually 
increase government revenues. If new businesses, new investments and new 
hiring are spurred by the prospects of better after-tax returns, the taxes 
paid by these new or growing businesses and employees can more than make up 
for the lower rates of taxation. But once again, because the tax deal is 
temporary, a large portion of this beneficent effect is missing. What some 
are calling a grand compromise is not grand at all, except in its price 
tag. The total package will cost nearly $1 trillion, resulting in 
substantial new borrowing at a time when we are already drowning in red 
ink.

Part of the tax deal is a temporary reduction in payroll taxes. The 
president was insistent, however, that only the employee's payroll taxes be 
reduced Ñ the portion paid by the employer is to remain the same. Again, 
the president is looking to get more money into the hands of the consumer 
to boost near-term spending. But by refusing to lower the cost of hiring a 
new employee, he fails to encourage what the American people want even more 
than lower taxes Ñ more good jobs. Like the income tax deal, the payroll 
tax deal will add to the deficit.

For those without jobs, the tax compromise extends unemployment benefits 
for 13 months. A decent and humane society must have a strong safety net 
for the unemployed. I served for 15 years as a lay pastor in my church and 
saw the heartbreak of joblessness up close; a shattering loss of faith in 
oneself is but only one of many forms the suffering can take. Nonetheless, 
the vital necessity of providing for those without work should not be used 
as an excuse to ignore the very real problems of our unemployment system.

In this, as in so many other arenas of government policy, unemployment 
insurance has many unintended effects. The indisputable fact is that 
unemployment benefits, despite a web of regulations, actually serve to 
discourage some individuals from taking jobs, especially when the benefits 
extend across years.

Redo jobless benefits

The system is also not designed for a flexible economy like ours in which 
some employees move from job to job for short periods, and are therefore 
ineligible for unemployment compensation when they are faced with a 
protracted spell without work.

To remedy such problems we need a very different model, perhaps 
establishing individual unemployment savings accounts over which employees 
would exercise direct control when they lose their jobs, or putting in 
place financial incentives for employers to hire and train the long-term 
unemployed. One thing is certain: While we cannot rebuild our flawed system 
overnight, we are surely not required to borrow the funds to pay for it. In 
spending $56.5 billion to extend benefits, the deal is sacrificing the 
bedrock Republican principle that new expenditures be paid for with 
offsetting budget cuts.

President Obama has reason to celebrate. The deal delivers short-term 
economic stimulus, and it does so at the very time he wants it most, before 
the 2012 elections. But the long term health of our great engine of 
prosperity will remain very much in doubt. To the twin inevitabilities of 
death and taxes, we may now have to add persistent high unemployment.

