09/17/10 Ð Values Voters Summit 2010

 Tweet
 

[Get Adobe Flash player] 

Transcript:
Thank you. Tony, I appreciate your kind introduction.

Welcome to the Nancy Pelosi, Harry Reid, President Obama farewell party. 
This has been a pretty tough year for those three-their numbers have gone 
down the chute faster than a Jet Blue flight attendant.

It wasn't so long ago that they were flying high. The commentator's legs at 
MSNBC were tingling. Time Magazine's cover declared the Republican elephant 
to be an endangered species. The President felt so giddy that he was able 
to fit in 40 rounds golf. Mind you, maybe the country is better off when 
he's taking advice from his caddy rather than from his economic advisers.

But laughs and high-fives in the elite corridors of power quieted down when 
Bob McDonnell won the Governor's race in Virginia. The celebrations in the 
cloak room came to a halt when Chris Christie showed John Corzine the door 
in New Jersey. And when Scott Brown seized the "people's seat" in 
Massachusetts, liberals went from back-slapping to back-stabbing. With 
thanks to Jackie Gleason, "How sweet it is!"

Of course Bob and Chris and Scott are just the beginning. America will soon 
be seeing a lot more of leaders like Governor Nikki Haley, Governor Susana 
Martinez and Senator Marco Rubio. Some pollsters are predicting that 
conservatives will enjoy a landmark victory. I can't guarantee a specific 
outcome, but one thing I know: America will repudiate Obama-style 
liberalism.

Part of the reason is the abject failure of his first two years in office. 
The President incessantly reminds us that he inherited a recession. Of 
course, that's why we argued during the campaign that it was no time for on 
the job training. If he or his economic advisors had any experience in the 
real economy, he would have known that the first three rules for any 
turnaround are focus, focus, and focus. But instead of focusing on jobs and 
the economy, he used the crisis as cover to push his liberal agenda, from 
cap and trade to an ill-conceived takeover of healthcare. America is sick 
and tired of an Administration that exploited the economic crisis instead 
of solving it.

But lack of focus wasn't the only problem. Ronald Reagan used to say this 
about liberals: "It's not that they're ignorant, it's that what they know 
is wrong." And the Obama-Reid-Pelosi record is living proof.They said that 
they would help get families and businesses, big and small, back on their 
feet. But look at what they did and ask whether it helped or hurt the 
economy and jobs:

Raising taxes on small business, hurt.

Hiking some taxes on investment by almost 200%, hurt.

Pushing cap and trade, hurt.

Stalling agreements to expand trade, hurt.

Sharply slanting the playing field in favor of union CEO's, hurt.

Handing General Motors to the UAW, hurt.

The federal takeover of healthcare, hurt.

Trillions of dollars of new debt, hurt.

Scapegoating and demonizing the very people who we need to invest in people 
and jobs, hurt.

This President and his fellow-travelers in Congress implemented the most 
anti-growth, anti-investment, anti-jobs measures we've seen in our 
lifetimes. He called it ambitious. It was reckless. He scared employers, so 
jobs are scarce. The uncertainty and lack of predictability he created has 
caused businesses to shrink from spending and from hiring. He hasn't helped 
end the crisis, he made it deeper, longer and more painful. We have had 
governments declare war on poverty and war on drugs, but this is the first 
time our government has declared war on free enterprise.

Never before has federal policy been so hostile to the small businesses we 
count on to help us grow out of recession. Not only do small businesses 
suffer from higher taxes and regulation, they have to face thenew costs and 
rules of Obamacare. And unlike the Democrats who voted for the 2,700 page 
monstrosity, small businesses will actually have to read it to figure out 
what they have to do.

The White House tries to argue that their stimulus has helped. That's a bit 
like saying that squirting water from a garden hose helps put out a forest 
fire. The question is not whether it helped a little, but rather, did it do 
the job, or do as well as it could have. And the answer is a resounding 
"no." 8% predicted unemployment became 10%. Since the Obama stimulus was 
passed, 127,000 government jobs have been created, but more than 2.4 
million private sector jobs have been lost. In Ohio, more than one in ten 
people are out of work. In California, the unemployment rate has hovered 
around 12% for more than a year. There are now nearly 15 million Americans 
that are out of work: if they stood in a single unemployment line, it would 
stretch from the coast of California to Washington D.C. and then back 
again! If that's their vaunted "recovery summer," heaven help us from their 
recovery winter!

Of course, the economy is slowly getting better and eventually it will 
right itself. It will be thanks to the hard work and innovation of the 
American people. Vice President Biden will say that he and the President 
deserve the credit. No, they have prolonged the recession, extended the 
pain of joblessness, and added to the burden of debt that will hang over 
the economy for generations. Their failure is one reason they will serve 
only one term. Isn't it fitting that those who have such contempt for the 
private sector will soon find themselves back in it?

If only the President would have made the economy job one. If only he had 
listened to conservatives who called for less taxing, less spending, less 
borrowing and less government. If only he had crafted incentives for 
business to hire and invest. If only his stimulus had spent less to protect 
his government unions and more to protect our troops. If only he had 
confronted the growing threat from unfunded entitlements, unfunded pensions 
and gargantuan liabilities at Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. If only hehad in 
fact been transparent and bipartisan and uniting, as he pledged in hiss 
campaign. Then, perhaps,he could have delivered on his promise of "yes we 
can." Instead, America knows all too well that "no, he didn't."

And it's ironic that a president who said he would unite the country has 
turned out to be one of the most divisive in history. But he HAS succeeded 
in one way -- he has united most of the voters against him.

The President's foreign policy has not compensated for his failure at home. 
Under his engagement policy, North Korea has tested nuclear weapons, 
launched long range missiles, and sunk a South Korean ship. And Iran has 
funded Yemeni insurgents, armed terrorists, and accelerated its nuclear 
program. He gave Russians their number one foreign policy 
objective-abandonment of our Eastern Europe missile defense-and got nothing 
in return. He insulted Israel at the United Nations and forgot to mention 
that Hamas has launched thousands of rockets into that country. Our success 
in Iraq is in spite of his policy preferences and thanks to those of his 
predecessor, George W. Bush. And his strategy in Afghanistan hasbeen 
needlessly muddled by announcing a withdrawal date, unfortunately putting 
domestic politics ahead of national purpose. Yes, we have serious enemies 
and growing threats around the world. Unfortunately, we have an 
Administration whose idea of a rogue state is Arizona.

These are among the reasons why liberals will have a bad November. Of 
course, the pundits will be right that this will not be the first time that 
power has been taken away from one political party and given to the other. 
But what is occurring in America today is different than simply a shift in 
seats. And it is not merely the result of disappointment or anger, though 
there may well be reason for both.

What is being felt in America today is more profound than that, more 
solemn, more sober. Americans believe that Washington is threatening the 
very foundations of what has made America, America. Washington is 
assaulting America's values. It is endeavoring to change what this nation 
has been, to change what it is, and to change what it is destined to 
become.

This room is filled every year by citizens-modern patriots--who are 
passionate about America's values.These values include the sanctity of life 
and the preservation of marriage. But the Obama Administration has taken 
its assault to even more American values. The American people have finally 
seen Obama liberalism for what it is; they have seen the counterfeit values 
that underlie it, and they want none of it! The liberals' values include 
spending and borrowing on behalf of my generation even though it will 
bankrupt my children's and grandchildren's generations.

They believe that the rule of law should be subordinate to their view of 
the greater good.

They believe that government knows best how to care for your health -- not 
you, not your doctor.

They believe that the rewards of success should be taken from the person 
who created them and given to those who did not.
They believe that workers shouldn't have the right to vote by secret ballot 
as to whether or not they want a union.

And even though one half of the children in our cities do not graduate from 
high school, they believe that parental choice and teacher accountability 
should bow to the interests of union bosses.

In fact, I'm afraid that some in Washington today are driven by such 
different values that they wouldchange the very character of America. Let 
me explain what I mean with a personal observation.

At Christmas-time, I was in Wal-Mart to buy some toys for my grandkids. As 
I waited in the check-outline, I took a good look around the store. I 
thought to myself: this store reminds me of Sam Walton. I never met him, 
but what I read about him was that he was passionate about low prices, on 
everything people might want. And he was somewhat impetuous. His stores are 
a lot like him: low prices, tons of different items, and a store that 
isn't, well, terribly well organized. It's not like a Target, for 
instance,where everything lines up just so.

And then I thought about other enterprises I know, and how much their 
founders have shaped them. Microsoft is a reflection of Bill Gates, just as 
Apple is of Steve Jobs. In some ways, Disneyland is a physical legacy of 
Walt Disney himself-imaginative, creative and whimsical. Virgin Airlines is 
as irreverent and edgy as its founder, Richard Branson.

I've found that it's not just businesses that are shaped by their founders; 
it's true of institutions of allkinds-schools, universities, charities, 
even churches.

It's also true of countries: countries are shaped by their founders and by 
those who have led them, oftenfor many centuries after those founders are 
gone.

I've often imagined what it must have been like for those first people who 
left Europe to immigrate to America. They left behind home, family, 
security and predictability in exchange for a life-threatening ocean 
passage, the possibility of hostile indigenous people, and uncertain 
shelter, food and climate.

Some who came here sought fortune. Others sought the right to practice 
their religion according to the dictates of their conscience. In almost 
every heart, it was a strain of liberty that drew them here-religious 
liberty, economic liberty, freedom to pioneer, or freedom from oppression. 
The thirst for freedom drove these American colonists. It has been a 
quintessential American value from the beginning.

The founders who drafted the Declaration of Independence and the 
Constitution made a trade very much like the first colonists. They could 
have chosen the predictable and secure path, following the commands of the 
Crown. They could have established their own form of monarchy: a powerful, 
autocratic government that would likewise tell people what to make, where 
to sell it, and how much they would earn.

But instead, they choose freedom. Just as the people would be free to 
choose their government, they would be free to choose their occupations and 
their life's course-to pursue happiness according to their own dreams.

That choice by the founding parents has made all the difference. People 
from all over the world who prized freedom-the innovators, the pioneers, 
the dreamers-came to America. This is who we are as a people-it is in our 
DNA. It is this love of liberty and the accompanying spirit of invention, 
creativity,daring-do, and pioneering that have propelled America to become 
the most powerful nation in the history of the world.

This course for America, chosen by the founders, has been settled for over 
200 years. Ours is the creed of the pioneer, the innovator, the striver who 
expects no guarantee of success, but asks only to live andwork in freedom. 
This creed, this value, is under assault in Washington today. Liberals are 
convinced that government knows better than the people how to run our 
businesses, how to choose winning technologies, how to manage healthcare, 
how to grow an economy, and how to order our very lives.They want to gain 
through government takeover what they could never achieve in the 
competitive economy-power and control over the people of America. If they 
were to succeed, they would smother the very spirit that has built the 
nation-the liberating, innovating, inventing, creating, independent current 
that runs from coast to coast. The Obama Administration promised that they 
would "fundamentally change the way Washington works." They misled us. They 
are trying to change the way America works, And we must not let them!

This Administration does not lack for confidence. But confidence in 
yourself is not the same as confidence in your country. And believing in 
the power of government is not the same as believing in the power of the 
governed.

In a world where others have lost their liberty by trading it away for the 
false promises of the state, we choose to hold to our founding values. We 
will stop these power-seekers where they stand. We will preserve America's 
character as the land of liberty. We welcome those who seek and will defend 
freedom; we admire the entrepreneur, the inventor, the innovator. We will 
insist on greatness from every one of our citizens, and rather than 
apologizing for who we are or for what we have accomplished,we will 
celebrate our nation's strength and goodness. American patriots have 
defeated tyrants, liberated the oppressed, and rescued the afflicted. 
America's model of innovation, capitalism and free enterprise has lifted 
literally billions of the world's poor out of poverty. America has been a 
force for good like no other in this world, and for that we make no 
apology.

