12/03/10 – Stop START

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was published by The Boston Globe

Stop START


By Mitt Romney
December 3, 2010

WHY THE hurry, Mr. President? It’s a question we’ve asked twice before. 
There was a rush to pass his $787 billion “stimulus’’ to hold unemployment 
below 8 percent. Congress obliged, and now we are saddled with higher 
unemployment and crushing debt. Then there was his health care assault: no 
time for our representatives to even read the bill. As ObamaCare has been 
revealed, it has frightened business into retreating from hiring. Now the 
president is in a hurry again: affirm the New START treaty right away, he 
insists, during the lame duck session. Fall for his rush once, shame on 
him; twice, shame on Congress; a third time, shame all around.

A treaty so critical to our national security deserves a careful, 
deliberative look by the men and women America has just elected. The 
president is in a hurry for the same reason he has been in a hurry before: 
he knows that if his vaunted treaty is given a thorough review by the 
Senate, it will likely be rejected. And well it should be.

Those who oppose New START are troubled by the answers to the following 
questions:

?Does New START limit America’s options for missile defense? Yes. For the 
first time, we would agree to an interrelationship between strategic 
offensive weapons and missile defense. Moreover, Russia already asserts 
that the document would constitute a binding limit on our missile defense 
program. But the WikiLeaks revelation last weekend that North Korea has 
supplied Iran with long-range Russian missiles confirms that robust missile 
defense is urgent and indispensable.

?Is the treaty’s compliance verification program inadequate? Yes. In a 
break from prior treaties, we would no longer be allowed to witness the 
destruction of Russian mobile ICBMs and launchers. Further, the prior 
provision for continuous on-site inspection of the principal Russian 
missile factory would be eliminated. And our verification inspectors would 
only be permitted to view Russia’s officially declared facilities — 
undeclared sites are available for treaty violations.

?Is Russia’s substantial nuclear missile advantage over the United States 
exacerbated? Yes. The treaty excludes tactical nuclear weapons where Russia 
has a more than five-to-one advantage. But these weapons are a threat to 
our forces abroad, and to our allies. Moreover, they could be re-deployed 
on Russia’s submarines to threaten us at home.

?Under the treaty limits, is the United States the only country that must 
reduce its launchers and strategic nuclear weapons? Yes. Russia has 
negotiated the treaty limits to conform to the weapon levels it has already 
planned. Thus, the United States must make what are effectively unilateral 
reductions.

?Does the treaty provide gaping loopholes that Russia could use to escape 
nuclear weapon limits entirely? Yes. For example, multiple warhead missile 
bombers are counted under the treaty as only one warhead. While we 
currently have more bombers than the Russians, they have embarked on new 
programs for long-range bombers and for air-launched nuclear cruise 
missiles. Thus, it is no surprise that Russia is happy to undercount 
missiles on bombers.

?Does the treaty restrict not only our strategic nuclear program but also 
our conventional weapons program? Yes. Any of our existing land-based or 
submarine-based launchers that are fitted with conventional weapons would 
be counted toward the treaty’s launchers limits.

?Does the treaty fail to limit Russia’s submarine-launched, long-range 
cruise missiles? Yes. As former CIA Director R. James Woolsey observes, 
given Russia’s planned deployment of a new 5,000 kilometer sub-launched 
cruise missile, “It is inexplicable that the administration would seek no 
limitations over systems such as these.’’

The administration excuses these lapses by insisting that Russia is not the 
bitter Cold War enemy of the past. Thus, more trust and less verify. But 
isn’t the administration also arguing that the Senate must immediately 
confirm the treaty in order to keep a Russian foe from taking imminent and 
dangerous nuclear steps? The president can’t have it both ways.

