06/09/2010 Ð We Need a Leader, Not a Politician

 Tweet
 

This opinion article by Mitt Romney appeared in USA Today
 
on 06/09/2010. It is entitled We Need a Leader, Not a Politician


Has it come to this again? The president is meeting with his oil spill 
experts, he crudely tells us, so that he knows "whose ass to kick." We have 
become accustomed to his management style Ñ target a scapegoat, assign 
blame and go on the attack. To win health care legislation, he vilified 
insurance executives; to escape bankruptcy law for General Motors, he 
demonized senior lenders; to take the focus from the excesses of 
government, he castigated business meetings in Las Vegas; and to deflect 
responsibility for the deepening and lengthening downturn, he blames Wall 
Street and George W. Bush. But what may make good politics does not make 
good leadership. And when a crisis is upon us, America wants a leader, not 
a politician.
We saw leadership on Sept. 11, 2001. Then as now, black billows seemed to 
come from the center of the earth. Lives had been lost. The environmental 
impact was immeasurable. The looming economic impact from lost tourism was 
incalculable. Into the crisis walked Rudy Giuliani. While that was an 
incomparable human tragedy, how the mayor led New York City to recover is a 
useful model for the president.

Rudy camped out at Ground Zero Ñ he didn't hole up in his office or retreat 
to his residence. His presence not only reassured the people of New York 
that someone was in charge, it also enabled the mayor to assess the 
situation firsthand, to take the measure of the people he had on the 
ground, and to understand the scope of the crisis.

The president has many critical matters that demand his attention, but 
brief and tardy tours and being photographed with a smudge of oil on a 
sandy beach don't work on any level. There is no substitute for being 
there.

In a crisis, the leader must gather the experts Ñ federal, state, local, 
public and private Ñ not to discover who is to blame but to secure their 
active and continuous involvement until the crisis is resolved. There is 
extraordinary power inherent in an assembly of brilliant people guided by 
an able leader. In virtually every historic national crisis, our most 
effective leaders gathered the best minds they could find Ñ consider the 
Founders in Philadelphia, Lincoln with his "Team of Rivals," Roosevelt with 
scientists and generals seeking to end World War II, Kennedy with the "Best 
and Brightest" confronting the Cuban missile crisis.

What happens when men and women of various backgrounds, fields of 
expertise, and unfettered intellectual freedom come together to tackle a 
problem often exceeds any reasonable expectation. Ideas from one may 
cross-fertilize the thinking of another, yielding breakthroughs. The 
president of MIT told me that the university spent millions of dollars to 
build a bridge connecting two engineering departments that had been 
separated by a road Ñ the potential for shared thinking made it more than 
worth the cost.

But even a gathering of experts won't accomplish much unless a skilled 
leader uses their perspective to guide the recovery. So far, it has been 
the CEO of BP who has been managing the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. 
The president surely can't rely on BP Ñ its track record is suspect at 
best: Its management of this crisis has been characterized by obfuscation 
and lack of preparation. And BP's responsibilities to its shareholders 
conflict with the greater responsibility to the nation and to the planet.

The president must personally lead the effort to solve the crisis. He 
cannot delegate this quintessential responsibility of his presidency in the 
way he delegated the stimulus bill, the cap-and-trade bill and the health 
care bill. It may be an instance of learning on the job, but it is a job 
only he can do.

The first rule of turnarounds is to focus time, energy and resources on 
what matters most. The president simply cannot treat this crisis like 
another of his many problems. The oil disaster could hurt millions of 
families, slam the regional economy, kill untold numbers of non-human lives 
and irreparably damage the planet. Among other things, he must not hold 
more rock concerts at the White House Ñ I understand James Carville's 
venting: His hero fiddled as oil churned.

Finding fault is easier than finding answers. And worse, it paralyzes many 
of the very people who may be needed to solve a crisis. When Hurricane 
Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast states, Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco 
went on the attack; Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour went to work. His 
state's recovery is textbook; hers is not.

President Obama's instigation of criminal investigations of BP at this 
juncture is classic diversion politics Ñ and worse, it will engender bunker 
mentality at a time when collaboration and openness are most critical. BP's 
actions and inactions are reprehensible; it must be made to pay the 
billions upon billions of dollars that this spill will ultimately cost. But 
call out the phalanx of lawyers later Ñ solve the crisis today.

The president can learn a good deal from the crisis leadership of men and 
women in government and in business. Giuliani is a notable example, but so 
too are Washington, Adams, Lincoln, Roosevelt, Eisenhower, Reagan and 
Kennedy. In a time of national crisis, we look to our president to 
acknowledge, as Harry Truman did, that it is at his desk where the buck 
stops.

And even at Day 52, it's better late than never.

-Mitt Romney 

