06/02/11 Ð Mitt Romney Announces His 2012 Run for President

 Tweet
 

Thank you for coming. And I want to thank Doug and Stella Scamman for 
hosting us on their beautiful farm.

You know, everyone here today can tell a different story. We have different 
backgrounds and we wake up in the morning and go to different jobs É or, 
look for different jobs. We go to different churches or maybe don't go to 
church so much. I bet some of you have families who go back 200 years or 
more in New Hampshire. And there must be some who just snuck in across the 
border, from Massachusetts. I hear the taxes are better over here.

But here we are on a beautiful June day coming together to begin a process 
that we often, quite naturally, take for granted. But it is really one of 
the great achievements in the history of the world. For all of our 
country's wealth and influence, those are not the source of our greatness. 
The true strength of America is self-rule, and a government that answers to 
a free and independent people.

We live in the most powerful nation that ever existed. And it all goes back 
to a few men and women who had the courage to stand - and even die - for 
their belief in liberty and equality. Because of their vision, the United 
States of America is not ruled by a monarchy or controlled by an 
aristocracy. Though sometimes folks in Washington might act otherwise, we 
don't have a House of Lords with inherited power. And as the Red Sox like 
to remind the New York Yankees, there are no dynasties in America.

Who rules this great nation?

You do. Every four years you decide who will give that State of the Union 
address, who will set the course of the country, who will be Commander in 
Chief.

What's true right here in this New Hampshire farm has always been true in 
America. Though each of us is different, though each of us will choose to 
walk a different path in life, we are united by one great, overwhelming 
passion: We love America. We believe in America.

Today we are united not only by our faith in America. We are united also by 
our concern for America.

This country we love is in peril. And that, my friends, is why we are here 
today.

A few years ago, Americans did something that was, actually, very much the 
sort of thing Americans like to do: We gave someone new a chance to lead; 
someone we hadn't known for very long, who didn't have much of a record but 
promised to lead us to a better place.

At the time, we didn't know what sort of a President he would make. It was 
a moment of crisis for our economy, and when Barack Obama came to office, 
we wished him well and hoped for the best.

Now, in the third year of his four-year term, we have more than promises 
and slogans to go by.

Barack Obama has failed America.

When he took office, the economy was in recession. He made it worse. And he 
made it last longer.

Three years later, over 16 million Americans are out of work or have just 
quit looking. Millions more are underemployed.

Three years later, unemployment is still above 8%, a figure he said his 
stimulus would keep from happening.

Three years later, foreclosures are still at record levels.

Three years later the prices of homes continue to fall.

Three years later, our national debt has grown nearly as large as our 
entire economy.

Families are buried under higher prices for food and higher prices for 
gasoline.

It breaks my heart to see what's happening in this country.

These failing hopes make up President Obama's own misery index. It's never 
been higher. And what's his answer? He says this: "I'm just getting 
started."

No, Mr. President, you've had your chance. We, the people on this farm, and 
citizens across the country are the ones who are just getting started.

I visited with a family, Kathy and Dave Tyler, who live in a suburb north 
of Las Vegas, Nevada. You probably know families just like them. They're in 
their early forties, a couple who had worked hard, sacrificed to buy a home 
in a good neighborhood, the sort of place they wanted their daughter Allie 
to grow up. But now that neighborhood is being crushed by this Obama 
economy. First their neighbors started losing their jobs ... and then their 
homes. And all around them now are abandoned houses ... and abandoned 
dreams.

When the Tylers wake up in the morning and get Allie off to school and then 
go to work and do everything they can to make it to the end of the month 
and hold their lives together, it doesn't matter if they are Republican or 
Democrat, Independent or ... Libertarian. They're just Americans. An 
American family.

And across the richest, greatest country on earth, there are millions of 
American families like the Tylers. Folks who grew up believing that if they 
played by the rules, worked hard, that they would have the chance to build 
a good life, with steady work and always that possibility to work a little 
harder and get ahead.

And in that America, you don't wonder if your children will have a better 
life. You know they will. You know it the same way we know that tomorrow 
morning the sun is going to come up in the East right over this field.

That confidence in a better tomorrow defines us as Americans.

When generations of immigrants looked up and saw the Statue of Liberty for 
the first time, they surely had many questions and doubts about the life 
before them, but one thing they knew without a doubt is that they were 
coming to a place where anything was possible Ñ that in America, their 
children would have a better life.

I believe in that America. I know you believe in that America. It is an 
America of freedom and opportunity. A nation where innovation and hard work 
propel the most powerful economy in the world. A land that is secured by 
the greatest military the world has ever seen, and by friends and allies 
across the globe.

President Obama sees a different America and has taken us in a different 
direction.

A few months into office, he travelled around the globe to apologize for 
America.

At a time of historic change and great opportunity in the Arab world, he is 
hesitant and uncertain. He hesitated to speak out for the dissidents in 
Iran, but his Administration boasts that he is "leading from behind" in 
Libya.

He speaks with firmness and clarity, however, when it comes to Israel. He 
seems firmly and clearly determined to undermine our longtime friend and 
ally. He's treating Israel the same way so many European countries have: 
with suspicion, distrust and an assumption that Israel is at fault.

To his credit, the President ordered the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. 
In Afghanistan, the surge was right, announcing a withdrawal date was 
wrong. The Taliban may not have watches, but they do have calendars.

Here at home, the President seems to take his inspiration not from the 
small towns and villages of New Hampshire but from the capitals of Europe.

With the economy in crisis, his answer is to borrow money we can't afford 
and throw it at Washington bureaucrats and politicians. Just like Europe.

Instead of encouraging entrepreneurs and employers, he raises their taxes, 
piles on record-breaking mounds of regulation and bureaucracy and gives 
more power to union bosses.

Instead of recognizing the states rightful authority to solve problems, he 
seizes power from them and rams through a disastrous national health care 
plan.

This President's first answer to every problem is to take power from you, 
your local government and your state so that so-called "experts" in 
Washington can make those choices for you. And with each of these 
decisions, we lose more of our freedom.

You and I understand this. We look at our country, and we know in our 
hearts that things aren't right, and they're not getting better.

President Obama's European answers are not the right solution to America's 
challenges.

In the campaign to come, the American ideals of economic freedom and 
opportunity need a clear and unapologetic defense, and I intend to make it 
Ñ because I have lived it.

Twenty-seven years ago, I left a steady job to join with some friends to 
start a business. Like many of you, it had been a dream of mine to try and 
build a business from the ground up. We started in a small office a couple 
of hours from here and over the years, we were able to grow from ten 
employees to hundreds.

My work led me to become deeply involved in helping other businesses, from 
innovative startups to large companies going through tough times. Sometimes 
I was successful and helped create jobs, other times I was not. I learned 
how America competes with companies in other countries, what works in the 
real world and what doesn't.

I left my business in 1999 to help put the Salt Lake City Olympics back on 
track. And when the Games were over, I came home to Massachusetts and 
served as governor.

I'd never held office before but I went at it like I ran businesses and the 
Olympics: ask tough questions and take on the toughest problems first, 
because they'll only get worse.

When I took office, I faced a nearly $3 billion budget hole. My legislature 
was over 85% Democrat. The expectation was that we'd have to raise taxes 
but I refused. I ordered a review of all state spending, made tough choices 
and balanced the budget without raising taxes. That sent a message that 
business as usual was over.

Over the next four years, we consolidated agencies, cut programs, sold 
state property and cut taxes nineteen times. The state was giving away over 
a billion dollars in free health care, much of it to people who could have 
paid something but were gaming the system. You won't be surprised that a 
lot of Democrats thought we should be giving away even more.

I took it on and hammered out a solution that took a bad situation and made 
it better. Not perfect but it was a state solution for a state problem. At 
the end of four years, it took over 800 vetoes but we balanced every 
budget, restored a $2 billion dollar rainy day fund and kept our schools 
first among all 50 states.

All of these experiences Ñ starting and running businesses for 25 years, 
turning around the Olympics, governing a state Ñ have helped shape who I am 
and how I lead. Of course, if I ran through a list of all my mistakes, Ann 
would find it hilarious, and we'd be here all night. But I've learned a 
lot.

Turning around a crisis takes experienced leadership and bold action. For 
millions of Americans, the economy is in crisis today, and unless we change 
course, it will be in crisis for all of us tomorrow.

Government under President Obama has grown to consume almost 40% of our 
economy. We are only inches away from ceasing to be a free market economy. 
I will cap federal spending at 20% or less of the GDP and finally, finally 
balance the budget.

My generation will pass the torch to the next generation, not a bill.

I will insist that Washington learns to respect the Constitution, including 
the 10th Amendment. We will return responsibility and authority to the 
states for dozens of government programs Ð and that begins with a complete 
repeal of Obamacare.

From my first day in office my number one job will be to see that America 
once again is number one in job creation. You know, if you want to create 
jobs, it helps to have had a job. I will make business taxes competitive 
with other nations, modernize regulations and bureaucracy and finally 
promote America's trade interests. It's time for a president who cares more 
about America's workers than he does about America's union bosses.

Over the last thirty years, I can't tell you how many times I've heard a 
situation is hopeless. But I've never been very good at listening to those 
people and I've always enjoyed proving them wrong.

It's one of the lessons I learned from my Dad.

My father never graduated from college. He apprenticed, as a lath and 
plaster carpenter, and he was darn good at it. He learned how to put a 
handful of nails in his mouth and spit them out, point forward. On their 
honeymoon, he and Mom drove across the country. Dad sold aluminum paint 
along the way, to pay for gas and hotels.

There were a lot reasons my father could have given up or set his sights 
lower. But Dad always believed in America; and in that America, a lath and 
plaster man could work his way up to running a little car company called 
American Motors, and end up Governor of a state where he had once sold 
aluminum paint.

For my Dad, America was the land of opportunity, where the circumstances of 
birth are no barrier to achieving one's dreams. Small business and 
entrepreneurs were encouraged, and respected, and a good worker could 
almost always find a good job.

The spirit of enterprise, innovation, pioneering and can-do propelled our 
standard of living and economy past every other nation on earth.

I refuse to believe that America is just another place on the map with a 
flag. We stand for freedom and opportunity and hope.

These last two years have not been the best of times. But while we've lost 
a couple of years, we have not lost our way. The principles that made us a 
great nation and leader of the world have not lost their meaning. They 
never will.

We know we can bring this country back.

I'm Mitt Romney. I believe in America.

And I'm running for President of the United States.

