12/19/11 – What Kind of Society Does America Want?

 Tweet
 

What Kind of Society Does America Want?


By Mitt Romney
December 19th, 2011

In less than a year, the American people will go to the polls and choose a 
new president. A matter of great moment is at stake in this election. The 
question we will decide is this: Will the United States be an Entitlement 
Society or an Opportunity Society?

In an Entitlement Society, government provides every citizen the same or 
similar rewards, regardless of education, effort and willingness to 
innovate, pioneer or take risk. In an Opportunity Society, free people 
living under a limited government choose whether or not to pursue 
education, engage in hard work, and pursue the passion of their ideas and 
dreams. If they succeed, they merit the rewards they are able to enjoy.

Over the past three years, Barack Obama has been replacing our merit-based 
society with an Entitlement Society. The federal government has insinuated 
itself more and more deeply into health care, finance, energy, industry, 
the environment and labor. As a result of one of the most dramatic 
expansions of Washington's power in our nation's history, federal spending 
under Obama is now nearly a quarter of our GDP, and has risen to the 
highest level since the national emergency of World War II.

With the growth of government has come an inevitable contraction of the 
private sphere. The American economy, once the envy of the world, has 
fallen into disrepute. Unemployment stuck over 8% for 34 months — the 
longest such spell since the Great Depression— is only one symptom of the 
profoundly disturbing transformation of American society that the Obama 
administration has pursued.

Glimpsing the future

If we continue on this course for another four years, we may pass the point 
of no return. We will have created a society that contains a sizable 
contingent of long-term jobless, dependent on government benefits for 
survival. Many more in the middle class will be pushed into poverty. And 
there is the special problem of America's young people. What social and 
political path will newly minted college graduates follow when they are 
unable to find jobs in which to put their energy and talents to use? It 
will be a tragedy if we have to find out the answer.

It will not only be a tragedy; it will be a needless tragedy because we can 
extricate ourselves from this distress. America is a fabulously rich 
country. Yet our wealth consists not only of material things, but also our 
ideas and our traditions and our founding principles. These principles 
empower our people and have made America the strongest nation in the world.

Our first principle is freedom. If we remove the shackles of government, if 
we unburden ourselves from the mountain of debt that we have been saddled 
with, we can become the Opportunity Society that we once were. America has 
historically rewarded hard work, education, industry, thrift and daring. 
The Founders called this a God-given right to the "pursuit of happiness." 
We call it opportunity.

Limited government

The first step in returning to an Opportunity Society is scaling back our 
vast federal government. I will put every single government program to a 
simple test: Is this program so critical to our nation's future that we 
should borrow money from China to pay for it? But my objective is not 
merely to cut unnecessary spending. As president, I hope to accomplish 
something far larger.

America has tremendous dynamic potential. Just in the past decades, America 
pioneered the computer revolution and the Internet revolution that have 
profoundly changed the world. Equally important revolutions are under way 
in American laboratories in fields ranging from biotechnology to 
nanotechnology to energy. Our potential as a nation is boundless. We need 
to unleash it again.

Building ever costlier government entitlements is not the way to go about 
that. Quite the contrary; the dead hand of bureaucratic Washington can only 
stifle entrepreneurship. Government dependency can only foster passivity 
and sloth. We need to rein in government and unleash the extraordinary 
vitality and creativity of the American people.

We must not wait to suffer a crisis like Greece's or Portugal's to right 
the ship of state. With the proper policies and strong leadership, we can 
once again become a society that rewards merit, that welcomes innovators 
and new ideas, and is capable of creating undreamed of opportunities for 
all who seek them. That is what the election of 2012 is all about.

