09/05/11 Ð My Plan to Turn Around the U.S. Economy

 Tweet
 

My Plan to Turn Around the U.S. Economy


by Mitt Romney
September 5, 2011

Barack Obama has had his turn at fixing the American economy. Millions of 
unemployed Americans can judge by their own experiences what he has done 
and failed to do.

For my part, I believe America can do better.

I have spent most of my career in the private sector starting new 
businesses and turning around ailing ones. Unlike career politicians who've 
never met a payroll, I know why jobs come and go.

Tomorrow, I will introduce a plan consisting of 59 specific proposals Ñ 
including 10 concrete actions I will take on my first day in office Ñ to 
turn around America's economy. Each proposal is rooted in the conservative 
premise that government itself cannot create jobs. At best, government can 
provide a framework in which economic growth can occur. All too often, 
however, government gets in the way. The past three years of unparalleled 
government expansion have retaught that lesson all too well.

Only the individual initiative of entrepreneurs, workers, investors and 
inventors enables companies, and our economy as a whole, to flourish. We 
must once again unleash the tremendous economic potential of the American 
people. The contrast between what the Obama administration has done and 
what I would do as president could not be starker.

First, President Obama has raised or threatened to raise taxes on both 
individuals and businesses. I would press hard in the opposite direction. 
Marginal income tax rates and tax rates on savings and investment must be 
kept low. Further, taxes on interest, dividends and capital gains for 
middle-income taxpayers should be eliminated. Our corporate tax rate is 
among the world's highest. It leaves U.S. firms at a competitive 
disadvantage and induces them to park their profits abroad, benefiting the 
rest of the world at our expense. I will fix these problems with permanent 
solutions. Ultimately, I will press for a total overhaul of our overly 
complex and inefficient system of taxation.

With scant regard for the costs imposed on consumers and businesses, 
President Obama has vastly expanded the regulatory reach of government. The 
federal government has estimated the price tag for its regulations at $1.75 
trillion. I will pare back regulation, including eliminating "ObamaCare." I 
will direct every government agency to limit annual increases in regulatory 
costs to zero. The impact of any proposed new regulation must be offset by 
removing another regulation of equivalent cost. Every one of President 
Obama's regulations must be scrutinized, and those that unduly burden job 
creation must be axed.

Where President Obama left America's trade interests untended, I recognize 
the job-creating potential of international commerce. I will create the 
"Reagan Economic Zone," a partnership among countries committed to free 
enterprise and free trade. It will serve as a powerful engine for opening 
markets to our goods and services, and also a mechanism for confronting 
nations like China that violate trade rules while free-riding on the 
international system. I will not stand by while China pursues an economic 
development policy that relies on the unfair treatment of U.S. companies 
and the theft of their intellectual property. I have no interest in 
starting a trade war with China, but I cannot accept our current trade 
surrender.

The Obama administration has severely restricted domestic energy 
production. I will ensure we utilize to the fullest extent our nation's 
nuclear know-how and immense reserves in oil, gas and coal. By 
rationalizing and streamlining regulation, we will harness these resources 
everywhere it can be done safely, taking into account local concerns. A 
huge number of jobs is at stake. So, too, is the price of energy, which 
strongly influences economic growth. We are an energy-rich country that, 
thanks to environmental extremism, has chosen to live like an energy-poor 
country. That has to end.

Seeking to pay back political favors, President Obama has catered to the 
institutional interests of union bosses at the expense of both workers and 
businesses. I will fight against measures that deprive workers of basic 
rights, such as the secret ballot. And I will not tolerate federal 
intrusions of the kind that the National Labor Relations Board initiated 
when it filed suit against Boeing for opening a plant in a right-to-work 
state.

We also need a rational system for worker retraining, instead of the 
existing 47 separate programs run by nine federal agencies. America can 
have the world's most competitive workforce, and under my leadership, we 
will.

Finally, President Obama has engaged in a massive spending binge of choice. 
He threw dollars at every problem he encountered, running up the national 
debt and accomplishing worse than nothing in exchange. I will restore 
fiscal discipline by cutting the federal budget and placing an ironclad cap 
on spending. I will also press for a Constitutional amendment to balance 
the budget. Tellingly, while the private sector shed 1.8 million jobs since 
Barack Obama took office, the federal workforce grew by 142,500, or almost 
7%. A rollback is urgently required.

As this catalogue of differences makes clear, our country has arrived at a 
fork in the road. In one direction lies the heavy hand of the state, 
indebtedness and decline. In the other direction lies limited government, 
free enterprise and economic growth. I know which direction is the American 
way. And I know in which direction lie the millions of jobs we need.

