06/18/11 – My Pro-Life Pledge

 Tweet
 

My Pro-Life Pledge


by Mitt Romney
June 18, 2011

I am pro-life and believe that abortion should be limited to only instances 
of rape, incest, or to save the life of the mother.

I support the reversal of Roe v. Wade, because it is bad law and bad 
medicine. Roe was a misguided ruling that was a result of a small group of 
activist federal judges legislating from the bench.

I support the Hyde Amendment, which broadly bars the use of federal funds 
for abortions. And as president, I will support efforts to prohibit federal 
funding for any organization like Planned Parenthood, which primarily 
performs abortions or offers abortion-related services.

I will reinstate the Mexico City Policy to ensure that non-governmental 
organizations that receive funding from America refrain from performing or 
promoting abortion services, as a method of family planning, in other 
countries. This includes ending American funding for any United Nations or 
other foreign assistance program that promotes or performs abortions on 
women around the world.

I will advocate for and support a Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act 
to protect unborn children who are capable of feeling pain from abortion.

And perhaps most importantly, I will only appoint judges who adhere to the 
Constitution and the laws as they are written, not as they want them to be 
written.

As much as I share the goals of the Susan B. Anthony List, its well-meaning 
pledge is overly broad and would have unintended consequences. That is why 
I could not sign it. It is one thing to end federal funding for an 
organization like Planned Parenthood; it is entirely another to end all 
federal funding for thousands of hospitals across America. That is 
precisely what the pledge would demand and require of a president who 
signed it.

The pledge also unduly burdens a president’s ability to appoint the most 
qualified individuals to a broad array of key positions in the federal 
government. I would expect every one of my appointees to carry out my 
policies on abortion and every other issue, irrespective of their personal 
views.

If I have the opportunity to serve as our nation’s next president, I commit 
to doing everything in my power to cultivate, promote, and support a 
culture of life in America.

