03/08/11 – Obama Misery Index Hits a Record High

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was published by the Boston Herald

Obama Misery Index Hits a Record High


by Mitt Romney
March 8, 2011

The unemployment rate has just fallen one-tenth of a percent, from 9 
percent to 8.9 percent. Of course, it is indeed progress, and it is being 
celebrated in the White House as such. But the celebrations bring to mind 
what a wit once said: An “acceptable” level of unemployment means that the 
government economist to whom it is acceptable still has a job. Today, as we 
move into the third year of the Obama administration, we do not have 
anything resembling even such an “acceptable” level of unemployment. Far 
from it. As of this month, 14 million Americans can’t find work.

When Ronald Reagan ran for president in 1980, he hung the Misery Index 
around Jimmy Carter’s neck. It consisted of the sum total of unemployment 
and inflation. Today, we have a different set of ailments. Instead of 
unemployment coupled with inflation, we have a toxic blend of unemployment, 
debt, home foreclosures, and bankruptcies. Their sum total is what we can 
call the Obama Misery Index. It is at a record high; indeed, it makes even 
the malaise of the Carter years look like a boom. Unemployment has fallen, 
but it’s fallen to a level that is still, by any historical marker, a 
national disaster. To suggest it as an achievement is to engage in what 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan famously called “defining deviancy down.”

Where should we go from here? Having spent my career in the private sector, 
I know a thing or two about how jobs are created and how they are lost. The 
most important lesson I learned is that there are three rules of every 
successful turnaround: focus, focus, and focus. Turnarounds work when the 
leader focuses on what’s most important. President Obama did just the 
opposite: he delegated the jobs crisis to Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid and 
he went to work on his own priorities, like cap and trade and 
government-run health care.

I hope we don’t have to wait two years for a new president to fix things, 
but I fear we might. What the occupant of the Oval Office needs to do, and 
do now, is focus on getting Americans back to work.

Take taxes. Our employers pay the highest rates in the world, tied with 
Japan, and higher than such societies top-heavy with government as Italy 
and France. Our small companies are hit particularly hard. If employers are 
going to start investing and hiring, we must reduce the burden. We can 
offset the lost revenue by ruthlessly eliminating corporate loopholes and 
the special deals that reward political influence and punish productivity. 
We also need to stop taxing companies that make money overseas if they want 
to bring it home. Encouraging companies to keep money abroad makes zero 
sense. As much as one trillion dollars kept abroad may be at stake; a sum 
that size invested here would create hundreds of thousands — or even 
millions — of good, permanent, private-sector jobs.

Our out-of-control fiscal policies are also impinging directly on the labor 
market. The failed stimulus program cost around $800 billion. Obamacare is 
going to cost another trillion. The denizens of the White House appear not 
to know it, but employers and entrepreneurs worry a good deal about the 
federal deficit and the federal debt. They look at the future and see that 
the government’s spending binge will mean higher taxes, higher interest 
rates, and a much weaker dollar.

All these things are the direct enemy of long-term investment. The climate 
of uncertainty they create has an indirect but no less damaging effect on 
confidence. Historically, federal spending has ranged between 18 and 20 
percent of GDP. Today it has soared to near 25 percent. If we want our 
politicians to end their free-spending ways, we need to establish an 
iron-clad ceiling on federal spending, setting it at a fixed percent of the 
GDP.

These proposals may sound wonkish, but let’s keep in mind what is at stake. 
Behind the unemployment statistics is a lot of heartbreak. Unemployment 
means children who can’t go to college; marriages that break up under the 
financial strain; young people who can’t find jobs and start their lives; 
and men and women in their fifties, in the prime of their lives, who fear 
they will never work again. Then there are the job fairs where thousands of 
people are showing up to compete for a few openings that probably are not 
as good as the jobs they held two years ago.

Unless President Obama changes course, these job fairs, with their day-long 
lines of unemployed seeking nothing more than a chance to earn a living, 
are going to be seen as his Hoovervilles. “I’m the only person of 
distinction who has ever had a depression named for him,” President Hoover 
once ruefully complained. Obamanomics, which at extraordinary cost has 
accomplished extraordinarily little, is earning our president his own 
dubious place in our history books.

