04/14/11 – President Obama Goes from Wrong to Dishonest

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was published by National Review

President Obama Goes from Wrong to Dishonest


by Mitt Romney
April 14, 2011

America saw a different President Obama yesterday. Over the last two years, 
the president’s job was to repair the economy and to make us safer. He has 
failed at both but at least he appeared to be trying — his failures were 
arguably attributable to inexperience, misguidance, and incompetence. 
Yesterday, however, the president went from being wrong to being deceptive 
and intellectually dishonest.

The peril of our nation’s present fiscal course has been amply documented. 
The facts are settled. The president’s own bipartisan deficit commission 
proposed entitlement and spending reforms to restore fiscal responsibility. 
The Republicans in the House of Representatives and Chairman Paul Ryan have 
offered alternative reforms of their own. With the resulting national 
recognition of financial peril, the country was presented with a 
once-in-a-generation opportunity. As the president summoned the nation, 
change was hoped for. Demagoguery, divisiveness, and deception is what we 
got.

Of course, it was predictable that the president would call for “tax hikes 
for the rich” even as he surely knows that extending the Bush tax cuts has 
been the single feature of the December tax compromise that has contributed 
most to stimulating the economy. And as he excoriates millionaires and 
billionaires — a politically delicious target — he also surely knows that 
the higher taxes he promises will impair America’s vital small businesses, 
depressing job and income growth for everyone.

Even so, if these shortcomings had been the only fault of the president’s 
speech, his performance would at least have been consistent with those of 
his past. But in refusing to endorse any — any — substantive reforms of our 
runaway spending and entitlement programs, and in impugning the motives of 
those who have put forward such proposals, the president’s performance went 
from wrong to bad.

The matter of spending and reform is no longer about politics. It is about 
preserving America’s future. The president’s descent is disheartening and 
dangerous.

