09/24/11 – Put American Workers, Business First

 Tweet
 

Put American Workers, Business First

By Mitt Romney
September 24, 2011

After 25 years spent as a businessman, I know that American workers have an 
extraordinary ability to respond to the challenges of an evolving economy 
and competition from abroad. Our country has what it takes to end 
9-percent-plus unemployment and return to the path of economic growth. But 
at a moment when the American workforce must respond like never before, its 
ability to do so is under assault by President Barack Obama and the union 
bosses that he counts as his allies.

The National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) attack on Boeing for opening up 
a new manufacturing facility for its 787 Dreamliner here in South Carolina 
is a flagrant case in point. Even Jeffrey Immelt, the CEO of General 
Electric and the chair of the president’s own Jobs and Competitiveness 
Council, has sharply criticized the Board’s charge that Boeing broke the 
law by opening a plant in a right-to-work state. The case has no legal 
basis and is certain to be dismissed by the courts. But damage has already 
been done: the rule of law has been undermined, business confidence shaken, 
and job creation further slowed.

It is easy to grasp what is going on here. President Obama is in political 
debt to labor leaders who funnel union funds to the coffers of the 
Democratic Party and who are vital to his re-election bid. In return, he 
has been advancing an agenda that gives more power to Big Labor in a way 
that hurts businesses and also the very workers whom unions ostensibly 
exist to represent.

One part of that agenda involved supporting a “Card Check” law that would 
eliminate secret-ballot union elections. To further the agenda, he stacked 
the once-impartial NLRB with union favorites, who, as in the Boeing case, 
are now calling the shots. For instance, they are pushing “snap” election 
rules that would give employers as little as ten days in which to prepare 
for an election or inform workers of the downsides of unionization.

Behind all these efforts lies a political machine funded by coerced 
contributions. Workers at unionized companies are often forced to pay 
hundreds of dollars annually in union dues. Employees have little choice 
but to watch that money go to union political causes they may not 
support-including the cause of more unionization. It is a vicious cycle in 
which President Obama happily participates, to the tune of hundreds of 
millions of dollars spent by organized labor on his election campaign. The 
result is that, even though unions too often slow investment and growth and 
job creation, our president has chosen their interests over the needs of 
the economy.

As president, I will put the interests of American workers and businesses 
first. Believe in America is my comprehensive plan to reignite our economy. 
It has 59 specific proposals, including 10 actions that I will take on 
Inauguration Day. One of those will be to reverse Obama’s executive orders 
that have tilted the playing field in favor of organized labor. Unlike 
President Obama’s appointees to the NLRB, mine will be experienced and 
even-handed arbiters, not former union officials with personal interests in 
promoting the agenda of their former employers.

There will be no Boeing cases in a Romney administration. Indeed, I would 
use the bully pulpit of the presidency to encourage more states to adopt 
right-to-work laws. I will fight to ensure that workers can choose to join 
or not join a union. To exercise that right freely, workers must have 
access to all the relevant facts for making an informed decision. This 
means hearing from both the union and management about potential benefits 
and costs. This also means being able to act on that information in the 
privacy of the ballot booth. I would press for legislation requiring the 
use of the secret ballot in all union elections and for the repeal of any 
NLRB rule that distorts the law to accelerate the union election process.

I am also vitally concerned about protecting the free speech of workers. I 
would seek to enact a law prohibiting the use of mandatory union dues for 
political purposes. The practice is fundamentally inconsistent with 
democratic principles; there is no legitimate reason for employees to face 
automatic paycheck deductions for political expenditures that they may not 
support. Under our laws, political donations should always be freely and 
voluntarily given.

All these measures will help put us back on the path toward economic growth 
and job creation. America’s workers have long been the most productive in 
the world. If we unshackle them from the self-interested restrictions of 
federal bureaucrats and union bosses alike, I have no doubt that they will 
produce wonders far beyond those, like Boeing’s Dreamliner, that have 
already made America the great country that it is.

