05/11/11 Ð As First Act, Out With ObamaCare

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was originally published in the USA Today

As First Act, Out With ObamaCare


by Mitt Romney
May 11, 2011

Health care is more than just one-sixth of the American economy. It is a 
source of well-being for individuals and families. We are blessed with much 
that is good in American health care. But we have taken a turn for the 
worse with ObamaCare, with its high taxes and vastly expanded federal 
control over our lives. I believe the better course is to empower the 
states to determine their own health care futures.

First, the good news: Health care in the United States has made remarkable 
advances in our lifetimes. Dramatic improvements in medical technology have 
expanded both the length and quality of life. And the U.S. health care 
system continues to provide consumers with many choices.

But our health care system has several well-known problems: high and rising 
costs, significant numbers of Americans without insurance, and glaring gaps 
in quality and efficiency.

We can fix these problems. Unfortunately, with the passage of ObamaCare 
last year, the president and the Congress took a wrong turn. ObamaCare will 
lead to more spending, greater federal involvement in health care and 
negative effects on U.S. economic activity. The president definitely forgot 
the admonition to "do no harm."

My plan is to harness the power of markets to drive positive change in 
health insurance and health care. And we can do so with state flexibility 
(unlike ObamaCare's top-down federal approach), no new taxes (as opposed to 
hundreds of billions of dollars of new taxes under ObamaCare), and better 
consumer choice (as opposed to bureaucratic, government choice under 
ObamaCare). This change of direction offers our best hope of preserving 
both innovation and value.

If I am elected president, I will issue on my first day in office an 
executive order paving the way for waivers from ObamaCare for all 50 
states. Subsequently, I will call on Congress to fully repeal ObamaCare.

The reforms that I propose, which are based on the same philosophical 
tenets as the reforms I offered during my last presidential campaign in 
2008, return power to the states, improve access by slowing health care 
cost increases, and make health insurance portable and flexible for today's 
economy.

Step 1: Give states the responsibility, flexibility and resources to care 
for citizens who are poor, uninsured or chronically ill. This reform speaks 
to the central advantage of our federalist system Ñ that different states 
will experiment with and settle on the solutions that suit their residents 
best. Some states might pass a plan like the one we did in Massachusetts, 
while others will choose an altogether different route. We can empower 
states to expand health care access to low-income Americans by 
block-granting funds for Medicaid and the uninsured. My reforms also offer 
the states resources to help the chronically ill Ñ both to improve their 
access to care and to improve the functioning of insurance markets for 
others.

Step 2: Reform the tax code to promote the individual ownership of health 
insurance. The tax code offers open-ended subsidies for the purchase of 
insurance through employers. This subsidy is unfair Ñ as it doesn't apply 
to insurance purchased on one's own. I propose to give individuals a choice 
between the current system and a tax deduction to buy insurance on their 
own. This simple change creates the best of both worlds. Absolutely nothing 
will change for those who like their current coverage. And individuals who 
don't get coverage through their employers will have portable, lower-cost 
options.

Step 3: Focus federal regulation of health care on making markets work. 
This means both correcting common failures in insurance markets as well as 
eliminating counterproductive federal rules. For example, individuals who 
are continuously covered for a specified period of time may not be denied 
access to insurance because of pre-existing conditions. And individuals 
should be allowed to purchase insurance across state lines, free from 
costly state benefit requirements. Finally, individuals and small 
businesses should be allowed to form purchasing pools to lower insurance 
costs and improve choice.

Step 4: Reform medical liability. We should cap non-economic damages in 
medical malpractice litigation. The federal government would also provide 
innovation grants to states for reforms, such as alternative dispute 
resolution or health care courts.

Step 5: Make health care more like a consumer market and less like a 
government program. This can be done by strengthening health savings 
accounts that help consumers save for health expenses and choose 
cost-effective insurance. For example, we should eliminate the minimum 
deductible requirement for HSAs. The market reforms I am proposing will 
drive down costs, better inform consumers and improve the quality of health 
care in our nation.

These five steps are positive change. They will reduce health care costs, 
improve access and enhance value for the money. My reforms put quality, 
choiceand innovation Ñ not Washington Ñ in charge.

