10/24/11 Ð We Need an Environment for Jobs

 Tweet
 

We Need an Environment for Jobs


By Mitt Romney
October 24, 2011

First, the good news: President Barack Obama has finally created some 
"green jobs." Now for the bad news: They are not in the United States, but 
in Finland.

The creation of environmentally friendly jobs has been at the top of Barack 
Obama's policy agenda since coming into office. With the first of his now 
many jobs plans, the President set out to fulfill his campaign promise of 
spending $150 billion to create ten million green jobs. Alas, things didn't 
quite worked out as planned.

First came Solyndra, the solar-panel maker backed by a major Obama 
campaign-funds bundler, which President Obama hailed as a "true engine of 
economic growth." It turned out to be a true engine of bankruptcy. Even as 
the administration trumpeted its accomplishments, the firm was careening 
toward insolvency. Taxpayers were left holding a $500 million bill, and the 
firm was left facing an FBI investigation. Nonetheless, at least one 
Solyndra-linked fundraiser is helping to organize Tuesday's presidential 
cash call in San Francisco.

Now we may be in for more of the same. The Obama administration has 
shoveled $1 billion out the door to two California-based electric car 
manufacturers. Fisker Automotive got a $529 million loan from the 
Department of Energy; Tesla got $465 million. President Obama has hailed 
such subsidies as a "historic opportunity to ensure that the next 
generation of fuel-efficient cars and trucks are made in America."

Alas, like Solyndra, these loans are turning out to be historic 
opportunities to line the pockets of major campaign fundraisers. Fisker 
investors, including Al Gore himself, have donated more than $1 million to 
political campaigns Ð primarily Democrats. Tesla, for its part, has 
financial backing from a fundraiser who bundled hundreds of thousands of 
dollars for the President's campaign; Tesla's CEO is also a major 
Democratic donor who has poured money into Obama's campaign coffers.

Tesla's next vehicle is expected to list for $57,400. Fisker's car, already 
a year behind schedule, will cost $97,000. "We have a history of losses and 
we expect significant increases in our costs and expenses to result in 
continuing losses for at least the foreseeable future," says Tesla's most 
recent quarterly filing.

And neither firm has created many jobs. So far, approximately 100 workers 
are employed by Fisker in Wilmington, Del., while an additional 500 are 
actually assembling the cars in Finland. Tesla's record is only slightly 
better. Even these few jobs may be illusory: studies of Europe's green job 
experiments have found that each new green job destroys several other jobs 
elsewhere in the economy.

Last summer, the Government Accountability Office, Congress's investigative 
arm, sounded alarm bells about potential abuses in the issuance of 
green-job loans, warning that the Obama administration's Department of 
Energy had "treated applicants inconsistently, favoring some and 
disadvantaging others." Congress should investigate carefully how so much 
taxpayer money was spent so poorly on behalf of so many donors.

But there are larger lessons from this sorry story. First, the U.S. 
government shouldn't be playing venture capitalist. It's not merely that 
government bureaucrats are bad at picking winners. The very process invites 
cronyism and outright corruption.

Second, as Fisker's decision to manufacture in Finland makes clear, the 
U.S. economy is not struggling for lack of government spending. It is 
struggling for lack of competitiveness. Instead of President Obama's doomed 
strategy of creating jobs that are good for the environment, we need a 
strategy to create an environment that is good for jobs.

My plan for jobs and economic growth does just that, with the goal of 
ensuring that no advanced manufacturer ever sees Finland as a better place 
than the United States to set up shop. For one thing, the plan reduces the 
burden imposed by government: It makes our tax code simpler, flatter, and 
fairer, and places our corporations on equal footing with global 
competitors. It also scales back the regulations that cost us nearly $2 
trillion per year and make our economy a singularly unattractive place to 
do business.

For another, the plan ensures that our workforce can outcompete any other: 
It reforms our labor laws so that workers and employers can build up 
successful businesses without interference from union bosses trying to 
build up their own power. It replaces our tangled web of ineffective 
federal retraining programs with a state-based system that lets individuals 
learn on-the-job skills. And it expands legal immigration so that the best 
and the brightest from around the world can choose to live, and work, and 
create jobs right here in America.

Having worked and created jobs in the real economy, I understand the 
policies we must pursue to make the United States the best place in the 
world to do business. It is these policies, not President Obama's handouts 
to politically connected investors with politically correct business ideas, 
that will produce a genuine economic recovery.

