08/30/11 – VFW National Convention

 Tweet
 

Mitt Romney's full remarks
 
as prepared for delivery:

It’s a privilege to be addressing the veterans who defended our liberty in 
the past, and who defend the memory and dignity of every veteran today.

I was born in 1947 – a quintessential baby boomer. I grew up in the shadow 
of World War II, and then came the wars in Korea and Vietnam. As a boy, I 
knew that it was American soldiers and sailors and Marines and airmen who 
had saved us from German Fascism, and who protected us from Soviet 
Communism. You were our heroes then, and you are today.

You know better than most that the world is still infected with purveyors 
of hate and oppression. Some are jihadists, some are communists, and some 
are simply tyrants who clothe themselves in any convenient political 
manifesto. And so once again, American heroes are called upon to defend 
liberty.

We rightly call our fathers and mothers the Greatest Generation, but every 
man and woman who has or now defends American liberty – from the beaches of 
Normandy, to the Mekong Delta, to the valleys of the Hindu Kush – shares in 
their heritage of greatness. Every veteran is the greatest of his 
generation.

The quiet heroes who have fought for our country come from the most diverse 
backgrounds imaginable: from farmers and subway riders, Ph.D.’s and high 
school graduates, and from every ethnic background of the American melting 
pot. But they are united by far more than what divides them.

They believe in America. I believe in America. We believe in freedom and 
opportunity. We believe in the inherent dignity of every human being. We 
have a deep and abiding faith in the goodness and the greatness of America.

But today we are united not only by our faith in America. We are united 
also by our concern for America.

25 million Americans are out of work, or have stopped looking, or have only 
part time jobs but want full-time work. Home values have dropped more than 
they did during the Depression. National debt is almost as large as our 
entire economy, and we owe a huge chunk of it to China. Incredibly, 
unfunded government promises now total about $530,000 per American 
household. This cannot possibly stand as the legacy we will leave the next 
generation.

And the peril of this mismanagement may even be more imminent. We stand 
near a threshold of profound economic misery. Four more years on the same 
political path could prove disastrous.

I am a conservative businessman. I have spent most of my life outside of 
politics, dealing with real problems in the real economy. Career 
politicians got us into this mess and they simply don't know how to get us 
out!

To win this fight for America's future, we will have to rise above 
politics. When members of Seal Team Six boarded their helicopters, they did 
so not as Republicans or Democrats or independents, they did so as 
Americans. And the final image that Osama bin Laden took with him straight 
to Hell was not a party symbol – not a Republican elephant or a Democratic 
donkey – but an American flag on the shoulder of one straight-shooting U.S. 
Navy Seal.

I start with the fundamental conviction that America is the greatest nation 
in the history of the world and a force for good. And while we are not 
perfect, I will not apologize for America!

Our president has taken a different approach. Have we ever had a president 
who was so eager to address the world with an apology on his lips and doubt 
in his heart? He seems truly confused not only about America’s past but our 
future.

So critical was President Obama of America before the United Nations that 
Fidel Castro complimented him for his “courage” and “brave gesture.” And 
Venezuelan dictator and thug Hugo Chavez joined in on the praise.

We can’t lead the world by hoping our enemies will hate us less. Ronald 
Reagan rallied America with “Peace Through Strength.”

American strength is the only guarantee of liberty. American strength 
turned the Cuban missiles around.

American strength caused the collapse of the Soviet Union. American 
strength yanked Saddam Hussein out of his spider hole. With freedom as our 
cause, strength is our only sure defense!

Today, President Obama is on a different course.

First, the White House proposed cutting military spending by $400 billion 
over the next twelve years. Then, President Obama agreed to a budget 
process that could entail cutting defense spending by $850 billion.

The incoming Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has called a cut of that 
magnitude “very high risk.”

Defense Secretary Panetta has warned that it could have “devastating 
effects on our national defense.” And that’s coming from a guy who works 
for President Obama.

This is the first time in my memory that massive defense cuts were proposed 
without any reference to the missions that would be foreclosed and the 
risks to which our country and its men and women in uniform would be 
exposed. Cuts of this magnitude can only be the product of one of two 
mistaken beliefs.

On the one hand is wishful thinking that the world is becoming a safer 
place. The opposite is true. Consider simply the Jihadists, a near-nuclear 
Iran, a turbulent Middle East, an unstable Pakistan, a delusional North 
Korea, an assertive Russia, and an emerging global power called China. No, 
the world is not becoming safer.

And so, on the other hand, that leaves us with the belief that America 
should become a lesser power. It flows from the conviction that if we are 
weak, tyrants will choose to be weak as well; that if we could just talk 
more, engage more, pass more U.N. resolutions, that peace will break out. 
That may be what they think in that Harvard faculty lounge, but it’s not 
what they know on the battlefield!

But American leadership is more than a budget fight. America must lead with 
clarity of intent, a commitment of purpose and unlimited resolve. 
Unfortunately, when we look around the world today, we see a muddled 
picture of American policy and power.

In the Mideast, we are pressuring our closest ally Israel to make 
concessions while putting almost no pressure on the Palestinians. The 
administration was quick to criticize Israel but slow to confront Syria’s 
strongman, Bashar al Assad, even though he facilitated arming Hezbollah, 
allowed terrorists to cross his border into Iraq to attack U.S. troops, and 
turned weapons on his own people. Instead of calling Mr. Assad a reformer, 
the administration should have labeled him a killer.

President Obama’s reticence to criticize Mr. Assad echoes his unwillingness 
to say a harsh word about the ayatollahs of Iran when they engaged in a 
bloody crack down on the dissidents who bravely protested the stolen 2009 
election. The White House was so tentative in its criticism and so eager to 
continue its policy of “engagement," that Iranian protesters questioned 
whether President Obama was with them. What a disgrace.

Now we have an unfolding revolution in Libya. First, President Obama acted 
as if it were a great surprise that a rebellion erupted, even though The 
Arab Spring was already in full swing in Tunisia and Egypt. Our involvement 
in Libya was marked by inadequate clarity of purpose before we began the 
mission, mission muddle during the operation, and ongoing confusion as to 
our role in the future.

Today, Qaddafi is on the run and we congratulate the Libyan people and the 
extraordinary professionalism of our men and women in the armed services. 
But when a president sends our men and women into harm's way, he must first 
explain their mission, define its success, plan for their victorious exit, 
provide them with the best weapons and armor in the world, and properly 
care for them when they come home! Anything less is not befitting a great 
nation.

In Afghanistan, the President has chosen to disregard the counsel of the 
generals on the ground. I don’t know of a single military advisor to 
President Obama who recommended the withdrawal plan the President chose, 
and that puts the success of our soldiers and our mission at greater risk.

Across the globe, China is becoming not only an economic powerhouse, but 
also a military super-power. Properly considered, China's military spending 
is nearly half our own. Its military build-up should give us pause.

As America’s veterans, you understand better than anyone that weakness 
invites aggression and that the best ally of peace is a strong America.

Our Air Force is now older and smaller than it has been for decades. Our 
navy has fewer ships than it is has had since World War One. The Navy says 
it needs 313 ships to fulfill it missions around the world. It only has 284 
ships and we’re on track to drop down to the low 200s.

And while our output has declined, the bureaucracy has increased. There is 
enormous waste. Let me give you an example: During World War Two, we built 
1,000 ships per year with 1,000 people in the Bureau of Ships – the 
purchasing department, if you will. In the 1980’s we built 17 ships per 
year, with 4,000 people in purchasing. Today, for 9 ships a year, it takes 
25,000 people!

Let me tell you, as a conservative businessman who has spent most of his 
life in the private sector, I look at that kind of inefficiency and bloat 
and say, “Let me at it.”

I will slice billions of dollars in waste and inefficiency and bureaucracy 
from the defense budget. I will use the money we save for modern ships and 
planes, and for more troops. And I’ll spend it to ensure that veterans have 
the care they deserve.

The sacrifices made by our soldiers inspire. As governor, I had the honor 
and privilege of visiting our wounded in military hospitals here and 
abroad. I walked room to room and bed to bed, visiting with these young 
heroes. Their courage and determination extends beyond the battlefields, to 
these hospitals, and then to their homes. Amputees who fought for America 
now compete for America in the Paralympic games. A young father holds his 
child with prosthetic arms.

Others were not wounded, but they sacrificed in other ways. They missed a 
birth or birthdays. They endured financial hardship and lost opportunity.

As governor, I attended a great many funerals and wakes. I met with 
families—parents, wives and husbands and children. As you know too well, it 
is heart wrenching.

I met with our soldiers in the anxious days before deployment to dangerous 
places. I welcomed them home, sometimes in celebrations. Sometimes in 
caskets.

I remember one day toward the end of my term when my office got a call 
telling us that a soldier’s body was being returned to our state from Iraq, 
coming in on a U.S. Airways flight. The soldier's family had not been 
notified in time to get to the airport to receive the body; I was asked if 
I would go to the airport in their stead. Of course, I said yes.

We drove over to the airport and the police car took me out on the tarmac. 
The jet came in and the people disembarked and then the luggage came down 
the conveyor, and finally, the casket came down, too. And the State 
Troopers who were there with me all saluted. And I put my hand on my heart.

And I happened to glance up at the terminal. There’s a big wall of glass at 
the U.S. Airways terminal in Boston right where the plane had come in, and 
the people coming off the plane had seen all the police cars, so they’d 
stopped to see what was going on. And the people walking down the hall saw 
the people leaning up against the glass, so they pulled up behind them. A 
huge crowd had formed up there.

Every single person I saw had their hand on their heart. And I couldn’t see 
tears through the glass, but I could see the faces, the sorrow, the 
admiration, the appreciation for that young soldier.

We are a patriotic people. We face extraordinary challenges. The American 
people rise to the occasion. They only ask for a leader who will tell them 
the truth, who will live with integrity, and who will actually lead them in 
the direction that will preserve this great nation.

We’ve lost a couple of years, but we haven’t lost our way. The principles 
that made America the hope of the earth are the principles that will keep 
us the great shining city upon a hill.

It’s time for us to come together and to carry our message across this 
country, that we’re taking back America, that we’re restoring those 
principles that made America the great nation that it is. Because we 
believe in America, we’re going to keep America strong, and worthy of the 
great sacrifice of America’s veterans and those young men and women who put 
their lives on the line for us even today.

Thank you very much.

