02/11/11 – CPAC 2011 Believe in America

 Tweet
 

From Mitt's official website
 
we have his complete remarks as prepared for delivery:

I’ve been in Ann’s shadow ever since our first date in high school. Over 
our years together, she’s waged some pretty impressive battles. Among her 
many accomplishments, none is more important or rewarding—to us and to our 
country—than her accomplishment as a successful mother of 5 and grandmother 
of 16.

Thank you, Ann.

The other night, from opposite coasts of the country, Ann and I watched 
President Obama’s State of the Union address. Ann figured out pretty fast 
what was going on. She sent me an email saying that it sounded like he was 
reading my CPAC speech from last year.

What we were hearing was not just a new and improved Barack Obama; it was 
an entirely different Barack Obama.

Saul Alinsky was out; Jeffrey Immelt was in.

The President went from “Change you can believe in” to “Can you believe 
this change?”

He sounded like he was going to dig up the First Lady’s organic garden to 
put in a Bob’s Big Boy.

But as the speech went on, it was clear that this was just the appearance 
of change: His answer for Americans out of work was more government 
spending and $50 billion for high speed rail.

He replaced his Chicago politician chief of staff with a fresh face from 
Chicago, named Daley.

Make no mistake: What we are watching is not Brave New World; what we’re 
watching is Groundhog Day!
Two years ago, this new President faced an economic crisis and an 
increasingly uncertain world.

An uncertain world has been made more dangerous by the lack of clear 
direction from a weak President. The President who touted his personal 
experience as giving him special insight into foreign affairs was caught 
unprepared when Iranian citizens rose up against oppression. His proposed 
policy of engagement with Iran and North Korea won him the Nobel Peace 
Prize. How’s that worked out? Iran armed Hezbollah and Hamas and is rushing 
toward nuclear weapons. North Korea fired missiles, tested nukes, sunk a 
South Korean ship and shelled a South Korean island. And his “reset 
program” with Russia? That consisted of our President abandoning our 
missile defense in Poland and signing a one-sided nuclear treaty. The cause 
of liberty cannot endure much more of his “they get, we give” diplomacy!

The world – and our valiant troops – watched in confusion as the President 
announced that he intended to win the war in Afghanistan….as long as it 
didn’t go much beyond August of 2011. And while the Taliban may not have an 
air force or sophisticated drones, it’s safe to say… they do have 
calendars.

I surely hope that at some point in the near future, the President will 
finally be able to construct a foreign policy, any foreign policy.

Here at home, the President’s response to the economic crisis was the most 
expensive failed social experiment in modern history.

He guaranteed that unemployment wouldn’t go beyond 8%. As he watched 
millions and millions of Americans lose their jobs, lose their homes and 
lose their hope, his response was this: It could be worse.

It could be worse? This is the leader of the Free World’s answer to the 
greatest job loss since the Great Depression? What’s next? Let them eat 
cake? Oh, excuse me. Organic cake.

It’s often said that the Presidency of the United States is the toughest 
job in the world. Fair enough. Undoubtedly true.

But how difficult is it to take office in the middle of a raging economic 
crisis and understand that the economy should be your number one priority?

The President who took office on January 20th, 2009 should have had one 
central mission – put Americans back to work! Fight for every job! Because 
every job is a paycheck and paychecks fuel Americans dreams.

Without a paycheck, you can’t take care of your family. Without a paycheck 
you can’t buy school books for your kids, keep a car on the road or help an 
aging parent make ends meet.

President Barack Obama has stood watch over the greatest job loss in modern 
American history. And that, my friends, is one inconvenient truth that will 
haunt this President throughout history.

Today there are more men and women out of work in America than there are 
people working in Canada. And in the month of January, Canada created more 
new jobs than we did.

When Ronald Reagan ran for President, he hung the Misery Index around Jimmy 
Carter’s neck. Today’s misery is real unemployment, home foreclosures and 
bankruptcies. This is the Obama Misery Index—and it’s at a record high. 
It’s going to take more than new rhetoric to put Americans back to 
work—it’s going to take a new president. Let me make this very clear. If I 
decide to run for President, it won’t take me two years to wake up to the 
job crisis threatening America. And I won’t be asking Tim Geithner how the 
economy works—or Larry Summers how to start a business.

Fifteen million Americans are out of work. And millions and millions more 
can’t find the good paying jobs they long for and deserve. You’ve seen the 
heartbreaking photos and videos of the jobs fairs around the country, where 
thousands show up to stand in line all day just to have a chance to compete 
for a few job openings that probably aren’t as good as the job they held 
two years ago. These job fairs and unemployment lines are President Obama’s 
Hoovervilles.

Make no mistake. This is a moral tragedy—a moral tragedy of epic 
proportion.

Unemployment is not just a statistic. Fifteen million unemployed is not 
just a number. Unemployment means kids can’t go to college; that marriages 
break up under the financial strain; that young people can’t find work and 
start their lives; and men and women in their 50s, in the prime of their 
lives, fear they will never find a job again. Liberals should be ashamed 
that they and their policies have failed these good and decent Americans! 
The President is trying to show that he finally gets it—that he really 
isn’t a liberal after all. But his idea of conservative economic policy is 
to invite some corporate CEO’s to the White House for an evening of 
table-talk.

I’m sorry Mr. President, but that’s not a policy, it’s a dinner party.

We’ve seen the failure of liberal answers before. Liberal welfare policies 
condemned generations to dependency and poverty. Liberal education policies 
fail our children today, because they put pensions and privilege for union 
bosses above the reading scores of our kids. Liberal social policies have 
failed to protect the unborn. And now, the hollow promises of liberal 
economic policies have failed to provide millions of Americans with the 
dignity of work.

Under the pressure of a crisis, people turn to what they really believe. 
With our economy in crisis, the President and his fellow liberals turned to 
Europe for their answers. Like the Europeans, they grew the government, 
they racked up bigger deficits, they took over healthcare, they pushed cap 
and trade, they stalled production of our oil and gas and coal, they fought 
to impose unions on America’s workers, and they created over a hundred new 
agencies and commissions and hundreds of thousands of pages of new 
regulations. Theirs is a European-style solution to an American problem. It 
does not work there and it will never work here!

The right answer is not to believe in European solutions. The right answer 
is to believe in America—to believe in free enterprise, capitalism, limited 
government, federalism—and to believe in the constitution, as it was 
written and intended by the founders. My father never graduated from 
college. He apprenticed as a lath and plaster carpenter, and he was darn 
good at it. He learned how to put a handful of nails in his mouth and spit 
them out, point forward. On his honeymoon, he and Mom drove across the 
country. Dad sold aluminum paint along the way, to pay for gas and hotels.

Dad always believed in America; and in that America, a lath and plaster man 
could work his way up to running a little car company called American 
Motors and end up Governor of a state where he had once sold aluminum 
paint.

For my Dad, America was the land of opportunity, where free enterprise, 
small business and entrepreneurs were encouraged and respected. The spirit 
of enterprise propelled America’s economy and our standard of living past 
every other nation on earth.

I refuse to believe that America is just another place on the map with a 
flag. I believe that America is an exceptional nation, of freedom and 
opportunity and hope. The America I believe in has goodness and a greatness 
that creates a unique American genius. That genius has blessed the world, 
led the world and yes, even saved the world from unimaginable darkness.

We didn’t originate the concept of liberty but our Founding Fathers 
redefined it and shared it with the world. From the brilliant sands of 
Omaha beach to the dark valleys of the Hindu Kush, we have fought with an 
unmatched courage and determination, not to conquer territory, but to give 
others the chance to experience the liberty that is humanity’s destiny.

Given all that America has done to lift others from poverty, given the 
millions of afflicted we have helped to heal and comfort, and given the 
hundreds of thousands of lives of America’s sons and daughters that have 
been, and are today, sacrificed to defend freedom, I will not apologize for 
America!

I don’t apologize for America because I believe in America! We believe in 
freedom, in opportunity. We believe in free enterprise and capitalism. We 
believe in the American dream. And we believe that the principles that made 
America the leader of the world today are the very principles that will 
keep America the leader of the world tomorrow. These last two years have 
not been the best of times. But while we’ve lost a couple of years, we have 
not lost our way.

This is fundamentally what conservatism is all about. We sing for God to 
bless America. He already has, he does now and thanks to the greatness of 
the American people and the principles that guide us, he will do so for 
generations to come.

Believe in America. Freedom depends on it.

Thank you.

