03/31/11 – On Jobs, Where is Obama?

 Tweet
 

This op-ed was published by the USA Today

On Jobs, Where is Obama?


by Mitt Romney
March 31, 2011

Sometimes truth arrives from the most unexpected sources. Christina Romer, 
President Obama's former chair of the White House Council of Economic 
Advisors, said last week that she was dismayed at Washington's lack of 
focus on jobs.

"I frankly don't understand why policymakers aren't more worried about the 
suffering of real families," Romer said. "We need to realize that there is 
still a lot of devastation out there." She called the 8.9% unemployment 
rate "an absolute crisis."

How bad is it? Last week, in the blue-collar community of Taunton, Mass., 
the annual jobs fair was canceled because not enough companies came forward 
to offer jobs.

Defining Deviancy Down was the title of Daniel Patrick Moynihan's seminal 
account of how American society came to condone previously stigmatized 
conditions and behavior. Moynihan focused on the growing acceptance of the 
deinstitutionalization of the mentally ill, the expansion of single-parent 
families and the violence in inner cities. To his examples, we can now add 
joblessness.

Last year, unemployment averaged a shocking 9.6%. The previous year, at 
9.3%, was only marginally better. So far in 2011, it has fallen to 8.9%. A 
consensus has emerged among some economists and politicians that we must 
accept historically high levels of unemployment over the next several 
years. Best case forecasts see a range between 7.5% and 8%.

Faces of despair
Even 7.5% unemployment means 11.5 million Americans without jobs. The human 
cost of that dry statistic can be detailed in a canvas of broken hopes and 
shattered lives. Workers at job fairs today are confronting an employment 
market in which there are almost five times as many job seekers as there 
are openings. Anyone who has visited such a fair or gone to a career center 
has seen the face of despair up close.

President Obama didn't cause the recession, but he made it worse and caused 
it to last longer. From the outset, he inaugurated the most 
anti-investment, anti-business, anti-jobs policies we have seen since Jimmy 
Carter. Further, the White House has still not crafted any discernible plan 
to put Americans back to work.

Creating good, lasting jobs will require the following:

•A tax policy that rewards savings, investment, entrepreneurial risk-taking 
and exports.

•Free, open and fair access to foreign markets, with a focus on 
constructive trade reform with China.

•Elimination of the federal bureaucratic and regulatory stranglehold on 
business.

•A market-driven energy policy that encourages investment in America and 
reduces our dependence on foreign oil.

•A commitment to fiscal responsibility through budget restraints and 
entitlement reform.

Not more stimulus
Another stimulus is not the answer: like putting a cup of gasoline on a 
fire, it produces heat only for a very short time. A stimulus doesn't lead 
entrepreneurs and businesses to make the long-term investments in people 
and capital that will help the unemployed get the good jobs they deserve.

Our high unemployment is a tragedy for millions, and it is a tragedy for 
America. If our society fails to offer a significant segment of its 
population the opportunity to participate in economic life, the broader 
social and moral fabric will fray.

One of our greatest strengths as a nation is our dynamism. When we mobilize 
to solve a problem, we solve it. It might be a cliché to say that 
leadership is required, but it also happens to be true.

We don't have that leadership now. Instead, we have passive acquiescence. 
Yet, if there was an ever an issue on which all Americans should agree, it 
is that when it comes to unemployment, the time to define deviancy upward 
is overdue.

