12/30/11 – Return America to Its Greatness

 Tweet
 

Return America to Its Greatness


By Mitt Romney
December 30th, 2011

I am running for president to help restore the greatness of America, with 
prosperity and good jobs at home and respect for our country abroad.

President Obama says that he wants to “fundamentally transform” America. He 
has endeavored to do so, by making us more like Europe, with government 
playing a larger and more intrusive role in our lives and in our 
enterprises. But Europe doesn’t work in Europe, and it is not working here.

The president’s breathtaking deficits, 34 months of 8 percent or higher 
unemployment, depressed home values, the rising cost of food and health 
care and the high price of gas are ample evidence that his plan to 
transform America has hurt America.

I don’t want to transform America; I want to return America to the 
principles that have made us the greatest nation on earth. In the vision of 
the Founders, the Creator endowed each of us with unalienable rights, among 
them life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. America would be the 
nation where citizens would be free to pursue their lives as they wished, 
not as the government directed. America would be the land of liberty and 
the land of opportunity.

And for more than two centuries, we have been a land where individuals, 
through education, hard work, risk taking and good fortune, can achieve 
their dreams. Free people pursuing happiness have made America the most 
prosperous nation on earth.

President Obama wants to change America from an opportunity society to an 
entitlement society, in which government takes from some to redistribute to 
others. His aim to create equality of outcomes rather than equality of 
opportunity requires a massive and assertive government that regulates an 
ever-increasing dimension of our economy and our lives.

To restore our economic vitality, to restore the strength and superiority 
of our military and to rebuild our free opportunity society, I will as 
president take the following actions:

- Repeal Obamacare and return to the states their rights and responsibility 
to craft the health-care solutions that suit their citizens best.

- Remove union stooges from the National Labor Relations Board and reverse 
the union-dominated agenda of the Obama administration.

- Open new markets for American products and services, and confront trade 
cheaters such as China.

- Secure our borders, and crack down on employers who hire illegal aliens.

- Unlock our energy resources, including oil, gas, coal, nuclear and 
renewables.

- Lower the corporate income tax rate to 25 percent.

- Repeal job-killing Obama-era regulations and cap future regulations.

- Eliminate the tax on savings and investment — no tax on capital gains, 
interest and dividends — for those making less than $200,000 a year.

- End the massive deficits by cutting government spending, capping it and 
balancing the budget.

- Rebuild our military with more ships, a modern air force, more troops and 
better care for our veterans.

The path I lay out is not one paved with ever-increasing government checks 
and cradle-to-grave assurances that in life’s crisis, government will 
always be the solution. If this election is a bidding war for who can 
promise more benefits, it’s a battle I’m not going to join.

I’m confident that Americans will refuse to be bought off by cheap promises 
that turn into never-ending debts for our children and grandchildren.

Nearly two and a half centuries ago, an idea called America was born. 
Farmers and merchants, aristocrats and blacksmiths put aside their fears to 
take up arms against the greatest power in the world. There was not a 
single reason to believe they could succeed.

But they believed in themselves. They believed that the guiding force in 
their lives should not be the fear each of them must have deeply felt, but 
a brighter, stronger belief that life without freedom is slow death, and an 
abiding hope that they could build a better world.

That world is America.

Across America we are at the beginning of the democratic process that those 
early patriots risked all to secure. This is the moment when we can reject 
failure and commit to make the failures and disappointments of the past few 
years only a detour, not a destiny.

This is time to bring America back, to restore the principles of freedom, 
merit and opportunity that make America great. I believe in that America 
because I have lived in that America.

