11/10/11 – I Won’t Let Iran Get Nukes

 Tweet
 

I Won't Let Iran Get Nukes


By Mitt Romney
November 10th, 2011

The International Atomic Energy Agency's latest report this week makes 
clear what I and others have been warning about for too long: Iran is 
making rapid headway toward its goal of obtaining nuclear weapons.

Successive American presidents, including Barack Obama, have declared such 
an outcome to be unacceptable. But under the Obama administration, rhetoric 
and policy have been sharply at odds, and we're hurtling toward a major 
crisis involving nuclear weapons in one of the most politically volatile 
and economically significant regions of the world.

Things did not have to be this way. To understand how best to proceed from 
here, we need to review the administration's extraordinary record of 
failure.

As a candidate for the presidency in 2007, Barack Obama put forward 
"engagement" with Tehran as a way to solve the nuclear problem, declaring 
he would meet with Iran's leaders "without preconditions." Whether this 
approach was rooted in naïveté or in realistic expectations can be debated; 
I believe it was the former. But whatever calculation lay behind the 
proposed diplomatic opening, it was predictably rebuffed by the Iranian 
regime.

After that repudiation, a serious U.S. strategy to block Iran's nuclear 
ambitions became an urgent necessity. But that is precisely what the 
administration never provided. Instead, we've been offered a case study in 
botched diplomacy and its potentially horrific costs.

In his "reset" of relations with Russia, President Obama caved in to 
Moscow's demands by reneging on a missile-defense agreement with Eastern 
European allies and agreeing to a New Start Treaty to reduce strategic 
nuclear weapons while getting virtually nothing in return. If there ever 
was a possibility of gaining the Kremlin's support for tougher action 
against Tehran, that unilateral giveaway was the moment. President Obama 
foreclosed it.

Another key juncture came with the emergence of Iran's Green Revolution 
after the stolen election of 2009. Here—more than a year before the 
eruption of the Arab Spring—was a spontaneous popular revolt against a 
regime that has been destabilizing the region, supporting terrorism around 
the world, killing American soldiers in Iraq, and attacking the U.S. for 
three decades. Yet President Obama, evidently fearful of jeopardizing any 
further hope of engagement, proclaimed his intention not to "meddle" as the 
ayatollahs unleashed a wave of terror against their own society. A proper 
American policy might or might not have altered the outcome; we will never 
know. But thanks to this shameful abdication of moral authority, any hope 
of toppling a vicious regime was lost, perhaps for generations.

In 2010, the administration did finally impose another round of sanctions, 
which President Obama hailed as a strike "at the heart" of Iran's ability 
to fund its nuclear programs. But here again we can see a gulf between 
words and deeds. As the IAEA report makes plain, the heart that we 
supposedly struck is still pumping just fine. Sanctions clearly failed in 
their purpose. Iran is on the threshold of becoming a nuclear power.

Recent events have brought White House fecklessness to another low. When 
Iran was discovered plotting to kill Saudi Arabia's ambassador by setting 
off a bomb in downtown Washington, the administration responded with 
nothing more than tough talk and an indictment against two low-level 
Iranian operatives, as if this were merely a common criminal offense rather 
than an act of international aggression. Demonstrating further 
irresolution, the administration then floated the idea of sanctioning 
Iran's central bank, only to quietly withdraw that proposal.

Barack Obama has shredded his own credibility on Iran, conveyed an image of 
American weakness, and increased the prospect of a cascade of nuclear 
proliferation in the unstable Middle East.

The United States needs a very different policy.

Si vis pacem, para bellum. That is a Latin phrase, but the ayatollahs will 
have no trouble understanding its meaning from a Romney administration: If 
you want peace, prepare for war.

I want peace. And if I am president, I will begin by imposing a new round 
of far tougher economic sanctions on Iran. I will do this together with the 
world if we can, unilaterally if we must. I will speak out forcefully on 
behalf of Iranian dissidents. I will back up American diplomacy with a very 
real and very credible military option. I will restore the regular presence 
of aircraft carrier groups in the Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf region 
simultaneously. I will increase military assistance to Israel and 
coordination with all of our allies in the region. These actions will send 
an unequivocal signal to Iran that the United States, acting in concert 
with allies, will never permit Iran to obtain nuclear weapons.

Only when the ayatollahs no longer have doubts about America's resolve will 
they abandon their nuclear ambitions.

