11/08/11 – President Obama has Failed Michigan

 Tweet
 

President Obama has Failed Michigan


By Mitt Romney
November 8th, 2011

On Wednesday night, Republican presidential candidates will gather in 
Michigan for another debate. All of us taking part are acutely aware that 
unemployment there remains over 11 percent. In Detroit, the city of my 
birth, far higher joblessness has brought a great city to the edge of ruin. 
There will be no one on that stage this week more pained by Michigan's 
struggles than I am.

Michigan is not alone. In eight other states, unemployment is over 10 
percent. In Florida the unemployment rate is 10.6 percent. In Nevada it is 
13.4 percent. At the national level, joblessness has been stuck over 8 
percent for 33 consecutive months, the longest such spell since the Great 
Depression.

This is not the way things should be. Tens of millions of Americans should 
not be out of work, worrying about paying their bills and losing their 
homes. We should not have to talk about our 21st century economy—the 
economy of advanced manufacturing, life sciences, and information 
technology—in the same breath as the soup kitchens of the 1930s.

President Obama inherited an economy in crisis. He proceeded to make it 
worse. He recently put forward yet another jobs plan, or at least a jobs 
plan is what he calls his proposal. In fact, it’s just another 
budget-busting stimulus bill. Even members of his own party won’t back it.

If we want to create jobs in this country once again, there’s a better 
path.

Rick Snyder, Michigan’s Governor, is not a professional politician; he’s a 
businessman just like I am. And he’s been doing important things that are 
going to make a significant difference for Michigan’s economy, like 
lowering business taxes.

As Massachusetts governor, I did similar things, including balancing the 
budget each year, cutting taxes 19 times, and turning a $3 billion budget 
deficit into a $2 billion rainy day fund. But no state, including Michigan, 
is going to sail forward in the face of the hurricane-force headwinds 
blowing from Washington. We need to do on a national scale some of the 
necessary things that Governor Snyder has been doing in Michigan.

Cutting taxes is essential. If we are going to create jobs in America 
again, marginal tax rates need to be kept low; we need to encourage not 
discourage savings and investment. I would eliminate taxes on dividends and 
capital gains for middle-income taxpayers. I would cut the corporate rate; 
among the world’s highest, it is one of the factors that propels companies 
to invest abroad and take jobs with them. And I would press for an overhaul 
of the entire tax code to make it flatter, fairer, and simpler.

Cutting spending is no less critical. President Obama increased federal 
spending by a staggering 21 percent, from $2.98 trillion to $3.6 trillion. 
That is not money that is ours to spend. With runaway deficit spending, 
we’re borrowing a big portion of it. Our children and grandchildren will be 
the ones compelled to pay it back. I won’t stand for more of this 
cross-generational theft. And I’ve laid out a workable plan to cut $500 
billion from the federal budget in four years and set us on a path to a 
balanced budget.

We also need to end the regulatory stranglehold on the economy. The federal 
government has estimated the price tag for its own regulations at $1.75 
trillion annually. That’s far more than the IRS collects in income and 
corporate taxes combined.

From Obamacare to Dodd-Frank to his war on carbon dioxide, President Obama 
has added hugely to the reach of the regulatory monster. As president, I 
will work from day one to repeal Obamacare, and I will cap regulations just 
as I will cap spending. The costs of every new regulation must be offset by 
removing another regulation of equivalent cost. Every regulation issued by 
President Obama needs to be reexamined to see how many jobs it kills.

President Obama came into office pledging to spend $150 billion to generate 
five million “green” jobs. With politically connected firms vying for 
federal grants, the result has been fiascos. First came Solyndra, with 
taxpayers left to picking up the tab for a $500 million loan guarantee to 
the bankrupt solar-panel firm. Now it’s been joined by Beacon Power, 
another green recipient of federal largesse, which has also gone under.

There’s worse. For even as the Obama administration has been chasing 
expensive fads, it has severely restricted domestic energy production. Yet 
if we are going to grow again, we need to tap our nuclear know-how and our 
vast reserves of oil, gas, and coal. The price of energy--of heating our 
homes, of filling up our cars, of running our factories—is intimately 
connected to our economic performance. It makes no sense to lock up our own 
energy reserves in the ground while importing billions from unfriendly 
countries.

I’ve spent 25 years in business. I led an international consulting firm 
through difficult times to growth and success, led a financial services 
business from start-up to prominence, and led the turnaround of a Winter 
Olympics to world acclaim. I know what it means to meet a payroll. I know 
why businesses hire people, and why they become forced to lay them off.

Fixing our national problems promises to be a far more difficult challenge 
than any I have encountered. But we have no choice than to move in the 
direction of making government simpler, smaller, and smarter. We certainly 
cannot continue on a path that has loudly promised hope and change but has 
delivered only grim comparisons with the 1930s.

