07/14/11 Ð Obama Made Recession, Recovery Worse

 Tweet
 

Obama Made Recession, Recovery Worse


by Mitt Romney
July 14, 2011

Elections are about differences. Yes, I have some differences with the 
Concord Monitor's recent editorial about my views. Newspapers play a vital 
role in the democracy and the Monitor, publishing daily since 1864, is 
among the venerable. Accordingly, I think it's valuable to hash out our 
respective views.

I do indeed believe that President Obama has failed us. I am delighted that 
the auto industry is recovering, but that would have been less costly to 
taxpayers had Presidents Bush and Obama encouraged the companies to 
reorganize under the bankruptcy code, as do other companies in distress. If 
needed, government guarantees should have come after the restructuring, not 
before it. I am pleased that New Hampshire unemployment is faring better 
than the national average. But the President is the leader of the entire 
nation, not of just one industry or of one state.

The nation is suffering. Three years into his four year term, 20 million 
Americans are out of work, have given up, or are underemployed in part time 
jobs. Home values continue to go down. Foreclosures are at near-record 
record levels. Our national debt is skyrocketing--President Obama is on 
course to add as much debt by the end of his term as all the former 
presidents combined. Your editorial labels my conclusion that the President 
has "failed us" as an "absurd charge." But given this record, I can reach 
no other conclusion.

Your editorial takes me to task for saying that he made the recession 
worse. He did. I have spoken with employers across the country and with few 
exceptions, they point to the President's policies on taxation, cap and 
trade, card check, Dodd-Frank, Obamacare, regulatory expansion, and 
alarming federal deficits as having deepened and lengthened the recession. 
Economists tell us that we have been in the recovery period for two years, 
but as The Wall Street Journal concluded, President Obama's recovery is not 
only anemic, it is one of the worst on record. The President made the 
recession worse and he made the recovery worse.

The President faces a new test. In 2006, then Senator Obama voted against 
raising the debt ceiling and decried the lack of leadership in Washington. 
Now the buck stops on his desk. It is entirely within his power to cut 
government spending. But rather than take such action, he has resorted to 
class warfare and fear tactics. With the recovery so tepid, with housing in 
decline, and with millions of Americans out of work, we should not now 
raise taxes nor chill hiring and investment by threatening to do so in the 
future.

New Hampshire is indeed doing better than the nation as a whole. That is 
good news for the citizens of the Granite State. It is also instructive for 
the nation. Could New Hampshire's good fortune have something to do with 
its legacy of self reliance, the absence of a sales tax, the absence of an 
income tax, and its fiscally conservative pro-growth policies? Yes, yes, 
yes and yes. The tax and borrow paths taken by states like California and 
Illinois which suffer from high unemployment and fiscal jeopardy stand in 
stark contrast to the path taken by New Hampshire. The President would be 
better served to look to New Hampshire.

