08/27/11 Ð An Environment for Job Creation

 Tweet
 

An Environment for Job Creation


by Mitt Romney
August 27, 2011

When regulations drive up the cost of energy, the impact is felt by every 
business and every consumer. In this sense, such regulations are no 
different from tax increases. They discourage investment, hurt the 
competitiveness of the American economy, and ultimately destroy jobs.

As governor of Massachusetts, lots of unnecessary regulations and taxes 
came to my desk and I saw it is as my job to say no to them. Concern about 
the environment brought the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) 
before me. The cap-and-trade program for New England electric utilities 
imposes a charge for carbon dioxide emissions above certain limits. I 
examined the costs, which included possible spikes of more than 20 percent 
in electricity rates for our state's manufacturers. And I studied the 
claimed benefits to the environment, which seemed to be extraordinarily 
thin. I said no thanks.

Unfortunately for its residents, New Hampshire signed up for the program. 
Businesses and consumers are already seeing higher electricity bills, and 
RGGI's major effects are yet to come. With RGGI on the books, firms looking 
up the road at the significant new costs RGGI imposes on them are less 
likely to invest or create jobs in New Hampshire. New Jersey is fortunate 
that its governor, Chris Christie, has withdrawn from the program. If New 
Hampshire does the smart thing and follows suit, I won't be in the least 
surprised.

The same set of dilemmas is now playing out in Washington. In the midst of 
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, Barack Obama came 
into office as a fervent proponent of a national cap-and-trade program. 
Even he knew enough to admit that under his plan "electricity rates would 
necessarily skyrocket." And he was candid enough to admit that it would 
cause entire industries to go under: "if somebody wants to build a 
coal-powered plant, they can," said the President. "It's just that it will 
bankrupt them."

The cap-and-trade bill that finally reached Congress would have cost 
trillions of dollars and destroyed millions of jobs. President Obama 
applauded it as "a historic leap." He should have recognized that it was a 
leap off a cliff.

Fortunately, Congress had the good sense not to compound our economic 
challenges by imposing cap-and-trade's extraordinary costs on the American 
people. Unfortunately, President Obama did not get the message. There's 
"more than one way to skin a cat," he said. His Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) proceeded to pursue through executive fiat what the President 
could not get the American people's representatives to support.

Irresponsibly, the EPA declared carbon dioxide, the same carbon dioxide 
that humans exhale, to be a "pollutant" that poses risks to human health. 
As a result, the EPA is now issuing regulations under the Clean Air Act 
that will produce the same sort of economic devastation that Congress had 
wisely rejected.

These regulations are only one piece of an expansive and destructive 
regulatory agenda. The administration's proposed regulations for coal-fired 
power plants could destroy what even the President's union allies estimate 
to be 250,000 jobs. A proposed regulation on industrial boilers puts 
800,000 more workers at risk. The EPA is considering an ozone regulation 
that could cost $90 billion per year and destroy more than seven million 
jobs. Seven million jobs is not a trivial number!

Even in the best of economic times, these steps would be highly 
irresponsible. But these are not the best of economic times. Unemployment 
is above nine percent and the economy is hovering on the edge of a 
double-dip recession. When Obama talks about his commitment to creating 
jobs while simultaneously suffocating the economy with new regulations, we 
must judge him by his actions not his words.

We need to move in the opposite direction and fast. My primary objective as 
President would be to put America back to work. I would seek out every 
opportunity to reduce the regulatory burden on industry. I would 
systematically remove the obstacles that the Obama administration has 
placed in the way of energy producers. And I would support the aggressive 
expansion of domestic energy production.

With the right policies and the right leadership millions of American could 
be at work drilling for oil and natural gas, mining coal, and operating 
power plants. The country would be richer and less dependent on foreign 
energy. As President I would understand the importance of safeguarding the 
environment, but I would be mindful at every step of the way of keeping our 
country secure and protecting American jobs.

