09/29/11 – Here is How I Will Control Federal Spending

 Tweet
 

Here is How I Will Control Federal Spending


By Mitt Romney
September 29, 2011

Since President Obama assumed office two and a half years ago, federal 
spending has accelerated at a pace without precedent in recent history, 
taking us from an already staggering $3.5 trillion in federal spending in 
2010 to a projected $5.6 trillion within the next decade.

This is the financial equivalent of speeding against traffic on a 
superhighway. It’s dangerous. It has to stop.

A household cannot become prosperous by spending all its money and running 
up a credit card bill.

Neither can a government or a country. Instead of putting the United States 
on a path toward economic recovery, the Obama administration’s spending 
binge threatens to turn us into another Greece, a chronic debtor state 
teetering on the edge of bankruptcy.

The indicators are all equally alarming. Since the 1950s, federal spending 
as a percentage of GDP has hovered around 20 percent.

When President Obama took office, it shot up to 25 percent, a level not 
seen since World War II. Before the recession, the federal government spent 
$25,000 per household. That number has now soared past $30,000 and is on 
track to hit $35,000 within the next decade.

All this money has to come from somewhere. If President Obama stays in the 
White House for another four years, some of it will come from the higher 
taxes the administration is seeking to impose. The rest of it will have to 
be borrowed. Before Obama assumed office, our country’s indebtedness was 
40.3 percent of GDP. Current projections have it hitting 69 percent this 
year.

If anyone wonders why unemployment is stuck above 9 percent, and why some 
25 million Americans are unemployed, underemployed, or are no longer 
looking for work, we should pause on that 69 percent figure. Every dollar 
that the government borrows for its operations is a dollar that cannot be 
invested in productive privatesector activity. Runaway federal spending 
crowds out private investment. At a moment when the public sector is 
flourishing as never before, it is unsurprising that the private sector has 
withered.

I have spent most of my life in the private sector, starting companies and 
turning around failing ones. What the federal government is doing today is 
a classic formula for ruin. I know how to set priorities and rein in costs.

In 2003, I became governor of a state hobbled by a deficit and shedding 
jobs as it came out of a recession. Working with a legislature under solid 
(85 percent!) Democratic control, I cut taxes 19 times, reformed and 
reorganized state government, and balanced the budget four years in a row. 
By the time I left office, Massachusetts employers were once again hiring, 
and the state had a rainy-day surplus of $2 billion.

The steps we must take to undo the damage inflicted by Barack Obama are as 
obvious as they are politically difficult. We must cut government spending, 
cap that spending at a sustainable level — 20 percent of GDP is the target 
I would shoot for — and pass a Balanced Budget Amendment to the 
Constitution. Cut, cap and balance are three words that are spoken far too 
rarely in Washington. But they embody my approach.

I will press for full repeal of Obamacare, which will save hundreds of 
billions of dollars. I will reduce the size of the federal workforce and 
align the wages and benefits of federal workers with the private sector. 
And I will set about the hard work of fundamentally restructuring the 
federal government.

Taxpayer money is today being used to underwrite a maze of rules, 
regulations and overlapping government agencies whose complexity defies the 
understanding even of those who inhabit the system. A first step in reform 
is acknowledging that the federal government cannot be everything to 
everyone.

There are many functions that the private sector can perform better than 
the public sector. Amtrak is a classic example. We can also use block 
grants to enable states to draw on federal resources while tailoring 
programs to their specific local needs.

That’s how Medicaid should be handled. It is also precisely what I have 
proposed in a plan under which the federal government will spend $4 
trillion less than what the Obama administration — as detailed in its own 
mid-year budget projections — plans to spend over the next decade. And $4 
trillion is just a down payment on future savings to come.

Getting the federal debt under control in the wake of Obama’s spending 
spree promises to be an arduous task. The good news is that Americans have 
awoken to the problem. The even better news is that the American people 
have always known what Washington can’t seem to learn: we cannot spend our 
way to wealth.

