01/31/12 – Mitt Romney’s Florida Primary Victory Speech

 Tweet
 

Thank you all. To the people of Florida tonight, thank you for this great 
victory. There are fewer candidates than when the race began, but the three 
gentlemen left are serious and able competitors. And I congratulate them on 
another hard-fought contest in this campaign.

Primary contests are not easy – and they’re not supposed to be. As this 
primary unfolds, our opponents in the other party have been watching. They 
like to comfort themselves with the thought that a competitive campaign 
will leave us divided and weak.

But I’ve got some news for them: A competitive primary does not divide us; 
it prepares us. And when we gather here in Tampa seven months from now for 
our convention, ours will be a united party with a winning ticket for 
America!

Three years ago this week, a newly elected President Obama faced the 
American people and said that if he couldn’t turn the economy around in 
three years, he’d be looking at a one-term proposition. We’re here to 
collect.

Since then, we’ve had 35 months of unemployment over 8 percent. Under this 
President, Americans have seen more job losses and more home foreclosures 
than under any President in modern history.

In the last ten days, I met a father who was terrified that this would be 
the last night his family would sleep in the only home his son has ever 
known. I’ve met seniors who thought these would be their best years and now 
live day to day worried about making ends meet. I’ve met Hispanic 
entrepreneurs who thought they had achieved the American Dream and are now 
seeing it disappear.

In his State of the Union Address, the President actually said, “Let’s 
remember how we got here.” Don’t worry, Mr. President, we remember exactly 
how we got here! You won the election!

Leadership is about taking responsibility, not making excuses. In another 
era of American crisis, Thomas Paine is reported to have said, “Lead, 
follow, or get out of the way.” Mr. President, you were elected to lead, 
you chose to follow, and now it’s time for you to get out of the way!

I stand ready to lead this Party and our nation. As a man who has spent his 
life outside Washington, I know what it is like to start a business. I know 
how extraordinarily difficult it is to build something from nothing. I know 
how government kills jobs and, yes, how it can help.

My leadership helped build businesses from scratch. My leadership helped 
save the Olympics from scandal and give our athletes the chance to make us 
all proud. My leadership cut taxes 19 times and cast over 800 vetoes. We 
balanced every budget, and we kept our schools first among fifty states. My 
leadership will end the Obama era and begin a new era of American 
prosperity!

This campaign is about more than replacing a President. It is about saving 
the soul of America. President Obama and I have two very different visions 
of America.

President Obama wants to grow government and continue to amass trillion 
dollar deficits. I will not just slow the growth of government, I will cut 
it. I will not just freeze government’s share of the total economy, I will 
reduce it. And, without raising taxes, I will finally balance the budget.

President Obama’s view of capitalism is to send your money to his friends’ 
companies. My vision for free enterprise is to return entrepreneurship to 
the genius and creativity of the American people.

On one of the most personal matters of our lives, our health care, 
President Obama would turn decision making over to government bureaucrats. 
He forced through Obamacare; I will repeal it.

Like his colleagues in the faculty lounge who think they know better, 
President Obama demonizes and denigrates almost every sector of our 
economy. I will make America the most attractive place in the world for 
entrepreneurs, for innovators, and for job creators. And unlike the other 
people running for President, I know how to do that.

President Obama orders religious organizations to violate their conscience; 
I will defend religious liberty and overturn regulations that trample on 
our first freedom.

President Obama believes America’s role as leader in the world is a thing 
of the past. He is intent on shrinking our military capacity at a time when 
the world faces rising threats. I will insist on a military so powerful no 
one would ever think of challenging it.

President Obama has adopted a strategy of appeasement and apology. I will 
stand with our friends and speak out for those seeking freedom.

President Obama wants to “fundamentally transform” America. We want to 
restore America to the founding principles that made this country great.

Our plans protect freedom and opportunity, and our blueprint is the 
Constitution of the United States.

Together, we will build an America where “hope” is a new job with a 
paycheck, not a faded word on an old bumper sticker.

The path I lay out is not one paved with ever increasing government checks 
and cradle-to-grave assurances that government will always be the solution. 
If this election is a bidding war for who can promise more benefits, then 
I’m not your President. You have that President today.

But if you want to make this election about restoring American greatness, 
then I hope you will join us.

If you believe the disappointments of the last few years are a detour, not 
our destiny, then I am asking for your vote.

I’m asking each of you to remember how special it is to be an American.

I want you to remember what it was like to be hopeful and excited about the 
future, not to dread each new headline.

I want you to remember when you spent more time dreaming about where to 
send your kids to college than wondering how to make it to the next 
paycheck.

I want you to remember when you weren’t afraid to look at your retirement 
savings or the price at the pump.

I want you to remember when our White House reflected the best of who we 
are, not the worst of what Europe has become.

That America is still out there. We still believe in that America.

We still believe in the America that is a land of opportunity and a beacon 
of freedom. We believe in the America that challenges each of us to be 
better and bigger than ourselves.

This election, let’s fight for the America we love. We believe in America.

Thank you. And God bless America.

