08/24/12 – What I Learned at Bain Capital

 Tweet
 

What I Learned at Bain Capital


By Mitt Romney
The Wall Street Journal
August 24, 2012

The back-to-school season is here, and as parents take their children to 
shop for school supplies, I suspect that many of them will be visiting a 
Staples store. I'm very familiar with those stores because Staples is one 
of many businesses we helped create and expand at Bain Capital, a firm that 
my colleagues and I built. The firm succeeded by growing and fixing 
companies.

The lessons I learned over my 15 years at Bain Capital were valuable in 
helping me turn around the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. They 
also helped me as governor of Massachusetts to turn a budget deficit into a 
surplus and reduce our unemployment rate to 4.7%. The lessons from that 
time would help me as president to fix our economy, create jobs and get 
things done in Washington.

A broad message emerges from my Bain Capital days: A good idea is not 
enough for a business to succeed. It requires a talented team, a good 
business plan and capital to execute it. That was true of companies we 
helped start, like Staples and the Bright Horizons child-care provider, and 
several of the struggling companies we helped turn around, like the 
Brookstone retailer and the contact-lens maker Wesley Jessen.

My presidency would make it easier for entrepreneurs and small businesses 
to get the investment dollars they need to grow, by reducing and 
simplifying taxes; replacing Obamacare with real health-care reform that 
contains costs and improves care; and by stemming the flood of new 
regulations that are tying small businesses in knots.

My business experience confirmed my belief in empowering people. For 
example, at Bain Capital we bought Accuride, a company that made truck rims 
and wheels, because we saw untapped potential there. We instituted 
performance bonuses for the management team, which had a dramatic impact. 
The managers made the plants more productive, and the company started 
growing, adding 300 jobs while Bain was involved. My faith in people, not 
government, is at the foundation of my plan to strengthen America's middle 
class.

I also saw firsthand through these investments how energy costs impact the 
ability of a business to grow. Today, energy costs are weighing on job 
creators across America because President Obama has limited energy 
exploration and restricted development in ways that sap economic 
performance, curtail growth, and kill jobs. I will take a sensible approach 
to tapping our energy resources, which will both create jobs and make 
energy more affordable for every sector of our economy.

In the 1990s, when the "old-technology" steel industry in the U.S. was 
failing, Bain Capital helped build a new steel company, Steel Dynamics, 
which has grown into one of the largest steel producers in America today, 
holding its own against Chinese producers. The key to its success? 
State-of-the-art new technology.

Here are two lessons from the Steel Dynamics story: First, innovation is 
essential to the competitiveness of U.S. manufacturing. We are the most 
innovative, entrepreneurial nation in the world. To maintain that lead, we 
must give people the skills to succeed. My plan for a stronger middle class 
includes policies to give every family access to great schools and quality 
teachers, to improve access to higher education, and to attract and retain 
the best talent from around the world.

The second lesson is that we must have a level playing field in 
international trade. As president, I will challenge unfair trade practices 
that are harming American workers.

Running a business also brings lessons in tackling challenges. I was on the 
board of a medical diagnostic-laboratory company, Damon, when a competitor 
announced that it had settled with the government over a charge of 
fraudulent Medicare billing. I and fellow Damon outside board members 
joined together and immediately hired an independent law firm to examine 
Damon's own practices.

The investigation revealed a need to make some changes, which we did. The 
company, along with several other clinical-laboratory companies, ended up 
being fined for billing practices. And a Damon manager who was responsible 
for the fraud went to jail. The experience taught me that when you see a 
problem, run toward it or it will only get worse.

That will be my approach to our federal budget problem. I am committed to 
capping federal spending below 20% of GDP and reducing nondefense 
discretionary spending by 5%. This will surely result in much wailing and 
gnashing of teeth in Washington. But a failure of leadership has created 
our debt crisis, and ducking responsibility will only cripple the economy 
and smother opportunity for our children and grandchildren.

I'm not sure Bain Capital could have grown or turned around some of the 
companies we invested in had we faced today's anti-business environment. 
Andy Puzder, the chief executive of CKE Restaurants Inc., which employs 
about 21,000 people at Carl's Jr. and Hardee's restaurants, has said that 
the "current unfriendly economic environment perhaps best explains why 
American companies are sitting on over $2 trillion which they could 
invest."

President Obama has piled on excessive regulations, proposed massive tax 
increases, added more than $5 trillion in federal debt, and failed to 
address the coming fiscal cliff—all of which is miring our nation in 
sluggish growth and high unemployment.

I know what it takes to turn around difficult situations. And I will put 
that experience to work, to get our economy back on track, create jobs, 
strengthen the middle class and lay the groundwork for America's increased 
competitiveness in the world.

Mr. Romney is the Republican Party candidate for president.

