07/31/12 – Culture Does Matter

 Tweet
 

Reinforcing Alliance's Military Might is Vital


By Mitt Romney
The Chicago Tribune
July 31, 2012

During my recent trip to Israel, I had suggested that the choices a society 
makes about its culture play a role in creating prosperity, and that the 
significant disparity between Israeli and Palestinian living standards was 
powerfully influenced by it. In some quarters, that comment became the 
subject of controversy.

But what exactly accounts for prosperity if not culture? In the case of the 
United States, it is a particular kind of culture that has made us the 
greatest economic power in the history of the earth. Many significant 
features come to mind: our work ethic, our appreciation for education, our 
willingness to take risks, our commitment to honor and oath, our family 
orientation, our devotion to a purpose greater than ourselves, our 
patriotism. But one feature of our culture that propels the American 
economy stands out above all others: freedom. The American economy is 
fueled by freedom. Free people and their free enterprises are what drive 
our economic vitality.

The Founding Fathers wrote that we are endowed by our Creator with the 
freedom to pursue happiness. In the America they designed, we would have 
economic freedom, just as we would have political and religious freedom. 
Here, we would not be limited by the circumstance of birth nor directed by 
the supposedly informed hand of government. We would be free to pursue 
happiness as we wish. Economic freedom is the only force that has 
consistently succeeded in lifting people out of poverty. It is the only 
principle that has ever created sustained prosperity. It is why our economy 
rose to rival those of the world’s leading powers — and has long since 
surpassed them all.

The linkage between freedom and economic development has a universal 
applicability. One only has to look at the contrast between East and West 
Germany, and between North and South Korea for the starkest demonstrations 
of the meaning of freedom and the absence of freedom.

Israel is also a telling example. Like the United States, the state of 
Israel has a culture that is based upon individual freedom and the rule of 
law. It is a democracy that has embraced liberty, both political and 
economic. This embrace has created conditions that have enabled innovators 
and entrepreneurs to make the desert bloom. In the face of improbable odds, 
Israel today is a world leader in fields ranging from medicine to 
information technology.

As the case of Israel makes plain, building a free society is not a simple 
task. Rather, it is struggle demanding constant courage and sacrifice. Even 
here in the United States, which from our inception as a nation has been 
blessed with freedom, we faced monumental challenges in harmonizing our 
ideals with our institutions. We fought a bloody civil war against slavery 
and it took a nonviolent civil-rights movement to bring political and 
social equality to all Americans. In these epic struggles we changed our 
“culture” and vastly improved it.

I have just returned from a trip abroad. I visited three lands — Israel, 
Poland, and Great Britain — which are defined by their respective struggles 
for freedom. I met with some of the greatest heroes of those struggles. I 
am always glad to return to American soil. On this occasion, I am only 
strengthened in my conviction that the pursuit of happiness is not an 
American right alone. Israelis, Palestinians, Poles, Russians, Iranians, 
Americans, all human beings deserve to enjoy the blessings of a culture of 
freedom and opportunity.

