02/28/12 Ð Michigan/Arizona Victory Speech

 Tweet
 

Visit msnbc.com for breaking news  , world news
 , and news about the economy


MITT ROMNEY (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Wow, what a night. Thank you. 
Thank you. Thank you. Now, first -- first...

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt!

ROMNEY: OK, first thank you, as the first state would call it, thank you, 
Arizona. Great victory in Arizona tonight. And thank you, Michigan. What a 
win. This is a big night. Thank you, guys.

You know, a week ago, it was just a week ago the pundits and the pollsters, 
they were ready to count us out, but across Michigan and Arizona, I kept on 
meeting moms and dads and students and grandparents, and they were 
concerned about what is happening to this great country of ours. And I was 
confident that we could come together today and take a giant step toward a 
brighter future.

So tonight, their efforts have brought our cause a great victory, and we 
celebrate with people across these states. Thank you.

Now tonight is also particularly special for me, because this is the place 
where I was born. This is the place where I was raised. My mom and dad 
lived many years here and loved this great state, and I know that 
Michiganders in this room, we consider you all family. Thank you so much 
for your help.

And in this room are the people who knocked on the doors and made the calls 
and went to the polls, and it made an enormous difference. We didn't win by 
a lot, but we won by enough, and that's all that counts.

And by the way, in Arizona, special thank you to Governor Jan Brewer there 
and Senator John McCain. They were tireless, particularly John McCain. He's 
been all over the country helping. What a hero. Thank you, Senator. Thank 
you, Governor. They're out there. We've got two sons out there that are 
celebrating with them. The great thing about having so many in the family, 
we can cover almost every race.

So Super Tuesday will be stretched, but we're going to find a way. Our 
campaign, as you know, is about restoring the promise of America. Last 
week, I unveiled a very bold economic plan that's going to jump-start the 
economy and it's going to get Michiganders back to work. It's going to get 
Americans more jobs they're crying out for, and we're going to have less 
debt and smaller government. And I'm going to deliver on more jobs, less 
debt, and smaller government. We're going to hear that day in and day out: 
More jobs, less debt, smaller government.

You know, there are a lot of people who were saying that, if you're running 
for office, you really can't speak honestly to the American people. Well, 
we did, and I will. And because this is a decisive moment, I believe this 
is a time that requires real leadership in our country.

Times are tough. We need leaders who will live with integrity, who have the 
courage to tell the truth and have the experience to get our economy back 
on track. That's the kind of leader I aspire to be. That's the kind of 
leader I will be if I'm president of the United States.

Our campaign -- our campaign is about more than just replacing a president. 
It's about restoring America's promise. From generation to generation, 
Americans have always known that the future would be brighter and better. 
Americans have always believed in a tomorrow full of possibility and 
prosperity. That's what it means to be the land of opportunity.

In America, you know that if you worked hard, you could build a better 
life. If you teach your kids the right kind of values and help them make 
the right choices in life, you know their future will be prosperous and 
secure. And that deep confidence of a better tomorrow is a basic promise of 
America.

Today, that promise is being threatened by a faltering economy and a failed 
presidency. Four years ago, we warned that the precedency was no place for 
on-the-job training. Well, today we have the economy to prove it, all 
right.

This president, by the way, he likes to remind us that he inherited an 
economy that was in crisis. But he doesn't like to remind us that he also 
inherited a Democrat Congress. He had majorities in both the House and the 
Senate. He was free to pursue any policy he pleased.

Did he fix the economy? No.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No!

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No!

ROMNEY: Did he tackle the housing crisis?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No. Did he get America back to work?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No!

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: No!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: No!

ROMNEY: Instead he put us on a path toward debt and deficits and decline. 
It's time to get off that path and get back on the path of American 
prosperity.

Now, these days when he's not spending our money or infringing on our 
rights, he's busy running for re-election. He believes -- did you hear 
this? He believes he ranks among the top four president in American 
history. Did you hear that? I'd find a different spot for him.

He thinks he deserves a second term. He says we can't wait, to which I say, 
"Oh, yes we can." Today, we're -- we're $15 trillion in debt, and real 
unemployment stands at 15 percent. You've heard that old saying about, I 
need a vacation from my vacation. Well, we need to have a recovery from 
this so-called recovery.

You know, as a nation, we've survived a Great Depression. We've weathered 
two world wars. We've made it through tough times, and we've not come all 
this way to give up now. We still believe in the hope, in the dream, and 
the promise of America. We know our future is better and brighter than 
these troubled times.

That unwavering conviction guides our campaign and this effort. It's 
rallied millions of people to our cause, and it's a message we're going to 
take to every corner of the country, from Ohio and Idaho to Georgia and 
Tennessee.

We've seen enough of this president over the last four years to know that 
we don't need another five years of President Obama because he thinks he's 
unchecked by the Constitution. He's unresponsive to the will of the people, 
and in a second term, he would be unrestrained by the demands of 
re-election. If there's one thing we can't afford, it's four more years of 
Barack Obama with nothing to answer to, so we're going to get him out of 
office and get him back home where he belongs.

Now you saw his budget.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt! Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, 
Mitt, Mitt!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt! Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, 
Mitt, Mitt!

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt! Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, Mitt, 
Mitt, Mitt!

ROMNEY: You saw the budget, he put it out. It foreshadows exactly what 
we're going to see ahead if he's the president: run-away spending, record 
debt. They were just the warm-up act. For an encore, he wants to raise 
taxes on job creators and small businesses and families. And we are not 
going to let him do it.

In this campaign, I'm offering a real choice and a very different 
direction. I have a plan that will restore America's promise through more 
jobs and less debt and smaller government. President Obama is making the 
federal government bigger, more burdensome and loaded. I'll make it smaller 
and simpler. And it's about time for that to happen.

He raised the national debt. I will cut cap and balance the budget. He 
passed Obama care. I would appeal Obama care. He lost our AAA credit 
rating. I'll restore our AAA credit rating. He rejected the Keystone 
Pipeline. I'll get us the oil from Canada we deserve.

And by the way -- by the way, I'm going to open up our lands for 
development so we can finally get the energy in this country that we need 
at a price we can afford.

Look, when it -- when it comes to the economy, my highest priority will be 
worrying about your job, not worrying about how to save my own. This 
president -- this president wants to raise your taxes. I'm going to cut 
them. That's going to start with an across- the-board 20 percent cut for 
every American. I'll also repeal the alternative minimum tax, and we will 
abolish, finally, the death tax.

And you know, he's now proposed raising taxes on small businesses and job 
creators. I'm going to lower those taxes. I'll also lower the corporate 
rate to larger businesses to 25 percent, make the R&D tax cut permanent to 
foster innovation. And I'm going to end the repatriation tax to return 
investment back to our shores. There's a lot of money offshore going to 
come back to America.

Let's finally have a tax plan that puts Americans back to work. And I have 
it, and we'll get it in place.

Now, you know he also proposes to raise taxes on savings and investment. 
And if I'm the president, I'm going to help middle-class families save and 
invest tax free. Yes, good, I agree. Yes, great. It's about time.

And he also has an extraordinary gap in his policy proposals. Do you 
realize after saying Medicare and Social Security were in trouble, he has 
yet to offer a single serious proposal for saving Medicare and Social 
Security? I have a plan to save them both. And unlike him, I have the 
courage to put my plan on the table for people to see.

Look, what this campaign is about, what my plans are about are creating 
jobs and raising wages for the American people. They're going to strengthen 
our entitlement programs for the next generation and they will not add to 
our deficit, but we will finally balance America's budget.

Now, beyond -- beyond having a plan to get our citizens back to work, I 
have the experience to get our economy back on track. I spent 25 years in 
business. I was also the steward of the Olympics and the leader of a state. 
I cut taxes 19 times. I turned a budget shortfall into a surplus. I know 
how government can kill jobs, and yes, I know how it can help create jobs. 
And I stand ready to lead our party to victory and our nation back to 
prosperity. We'll get the job done.

It's a critical time in America. It's our time for choosing, and this time, 
we've got to get the choice right. I said it before, and I firmly believe 
it, that this campaign is about saving the soul of America. This election 
-- this election comes down to two very different visions of America. It's 
a choice between becoming a nation of and by Washington or remaining a 
nation of and by a free people. A choice between an entitlement society and 
the land of opportunity. A choice between squandering America's promise and 
restoring that promise for future generations.

If you want to make the election about restoring American greatness, then I 
hope you'll join us. If you believe the disappointments of the last few 
years are a detour and not the destiny for America, I need your support.

I'm asking for you to get out and vote, and I'm asking for you, by the way, 
to go on MittRomney.com and pledge your support in every way possible. I'm 
-- I'm asking you to join the fight for the freedom, to insure that 
tomorrow will be better than today.

This election, let's restore America's promise. Let's fight for this 
country we love. We've got work ahead. We're going to do that work. We're 
going to take back America. America is the greatest nation in the history 
of the earth. We're going to keep it that way.

Thank you, guys. You're the best.

God bless the United States of America. Thank you.

