03/19/12 – Remarks in Chicago: “The Freedom to Dream”

 Tweet
 

The Freedom to Dream


Thanks to the University of Chicago for hosting us today. It’s good to see 
so many scholars from the School of Public Policy. And it is an honor to 
visit the campus that houses the Becker-Friedman Institute.

Milton Friedman used to tell a story about a trip he took to Asia in the 
1960s. Some government officials there asked him to visit the site of a 
massive public works project. When he got there, he saw thousands of 
workers trying to build a canal with shovels.

Milton turned to one of the officials and asked him why there were so few 
machines. The bureaucrat said, “You don’t understand. This is a jobs 
program.”

Milton replied, “Oh, I thought you were trying to build a canal. If it’s 
jobs you want, then you should give these workers spoons, not shovels.”

Milton Friedman knew what President Obama still has not learned, even after 
three years and hundreds of billions of dollars in spending: The government 
does not create prosperity; free markets and free people do.

For three years, President Obama has expanded government instead of 
empowering the American people. He’s put us deeper in debt. He’s slowed the 
recovery and harmed our economy. And he has attacked the cornerstone of 
American prosperity: our economic freedom.

Today, I want to talk with you about why economic freedom is so critical – 
and how, as President, I will restore it in order to get our economy 
growing again.

This November, we face a defining decision. Our choice will not be one of 
party or personality.

This election will be about principle. Our economic freedom will be on the 
ballot. And I intend to offer the American people a clear choice.

I spent 25 years in business. My work took me to many countries. I was 
often struck by the enormous differences in the wealth and well-being of 
people living in different nations. I was interested in how nations that 
were so close to each other in terms of geography could be so different in 
terms of prosperity. Take, for example, Mexico and the United States, 
Israel and Egypt, Chile and Ecuador.

I read books that purported to explain the disparities between such 
nations. Jared Diamond argued it was largely due to their physical 
differences, their minerals and natural resources. But this only explained 
part of what I saw.

Then I read a book by historian David Landes called The Wealth and Poverty 
of Nations. In it, he traces the rise and fall of the great civilizations 
in history. After about 500 pages of scholarly analysis, he concludes with 
this observation: “If we learn anything from the history of economic 
development, it is that culture makes all the difference.” Culture.

What is it about America’s culture that made us the greatest economic power 
in the history of the earth? Many features come to mind: our work ethic, 
our appreciation for education, our willingness to take risk, our 
commitment to honor and oath, our family orientation, our devotion to a 
purpose greater than ourselves, our patriotism.

But one feature of our culture that propels the American economy stands 
out: freedom.

The American economy is fueled by freedom.

Free people and their free enterprises are what drive our economic 
vitality.

The Founding Fathers wrote that we are endowed by our Creator with the 
freedom to pursue happiness. In America, we would have economic freedom, 
just as we would have political and religious freedom. Here, we would not 
be limited by the circumstance of birth nor directed by the supposedly 
informed hand of government. We would be free to pursue happiness as we 
wish.

The Founders were convinced that millions of people, all freely choosing 
their individual occupations and enterprises, all pursuing their individual 
dreams, would produce great prosperity. And, they were right.

Economic freedom is the only force that has consistently succeeded in 
lifting people out of poverty. It is the only principle that has ever 
created sustained prosperity. It is why our economy rose to rival those of 
the world’s leading powers – and has long since surpassed them all.

Today, however, our status and our standing are in peril because the source 
of our economic strength is threatened. Over the last several decades, and 
particularly over the last three years, Washington has increasingly 
encroached upon our freedom. The Obama administration’s assault on our 
economic freedom is the principal reason why the recovery has been so tepid 
– why it couldn’t meet their projections, let alone our expectations. If we 
don’t change course now, this assault on freedom could damage our economy 
and the well-being of American families for decades to come.

We see this attack on our freedom in every corner of the economy.

Let’s start with taxes. By their very nature, they reduce our freedom. 
Their only role in a free economy should be to fund services that are 
absolutely essential, such as national security, education, and the care of 
those who cannot care for themselves.

And, yet, President Obama has proposed raising the marginal tax rate from 
35% to 40%. He has proposed special breaks for his favorite industries, 
further increases for businesses he dislikes, and endless credits and 
subsidies intended to shape our behavior in this society. Think for a 
moment about what that does to the freedom to start a business or grow an 
enterprise.

Last week, I spoke with an entrepreneur in St. Louis. He and his son make 
amplifiers for electric guitars, but they recently had to lay off their 
other two employees. He said that, by his calculation, government takes 65% 
of what his business earns. President Obama wants to take even more.

If you invest your savings in a new business and are one of the fortunate 
few who see success – and make a profit – President Obama wants to take 40% 
of it. And then add to that the payroll tax, the gas tax, and state and 
city income, property, and excise taxes. And then factor in the regulatory 
burdens, whose costs far exceed the total of all income tax payments. 
Pretty soon, those taxes and costs add up. Businesses shut down. Jobs 
disappear. Entrepreneurs decide it’s too risky and too costly to invest and 
to hire.

Dodd-Frank is another example. It’s an 848-page behemoth that will be 
followed by thousands and thousands of pages of new regulations. 
Regulations are necessary. But burdensome regulations serve only to 
restrict freedom and imperil enterprise. The victims of those regulations 
are not nameless, faceless banks. They’re the employees, the business 
owners, and the customers who rely on those financial institutions.

This administration’s burdensome regulations are even invading the freedom 
of everyday Americans. Mike and Chantell Sackett run a small business in 
Idaho. They saved enough money to buy a piece of property and build a 
modest home on it. But days after they broke ground, an EPA regulator told 
them to stop digging. The EPA said they were building on a wetland. But the 
Sacketts’ property isn’t on the wetlands register. It sits in a residential 
area.

Nevertheless, the EPA wouldn’t let them appeal the decision. It told the 
Sacketts they weren’t allowed to go to court. An unelected government 
bureaucrat robbed them of their freedom.

They were given no recourse, no remedy. They could do what the EPA wanted, 
or they could risk millions of dollars in fines.

Under President Obama, those same bureaucrats are insinuating themselves 
into every corner of the economy. They prevent drilling rigs from going to 
work in the Gulf. They keep coal from being mined. They impede the reliable 
supply of natural gas. They even tell farmers what their 15-year-old sons 
and daughters can and can't do on the family farm.

Will Rogers famously said, “This country has come to feel the same when 
Congress is in session as we do when the baby gets hold of a hammer. It’s 
just a question of how much damage he can do with it before you can take it 
away from him.”

Will Rogers was concerned about the damage Congress could do. But today, 
our freedom is never safe – because unelected, unaccountable regulators are 
always on the prowl. And under President Obama, they are multiplying like 
proverbial rabbits. The number of federal employees has grown by 140,000 
under this president.

Those regulators do a lot of damage. For every regulation, there are 
unintended consequences, underestimated costs, and unwanted influence from 
special interests. And, of course, the bureaucratic impulse is to make more 
rules, never to reduce them. All those regulations erode our freedom and 
stifle prosperity.

Now, the Obama assault on economic freedom is not limited to actions 
against individuals and enterprises; it extends to its intrusion upon the 
free marketplace itself. When government rather than the market routinely 
selects the winners and losers, enterprises cannot predict their prospects, 
and free enterprise is replaced with crony capitalism.

Solyndra, Ener1, Fisker, and Tesla are examples. When the government 
invested $500 million in Solyndra, you can imagine that scores of other 
solar energy entrepreneurs and enterprises either lost their investors or 
failed to find any. When the NLRB tried to shut down Boeing’s plant in 
South Carolina, it sent a signal dissuading businesses of all kinds from 
making similar investments in right to work states, limiting their freedom. 
When General Motors shares were directed to the UAW, political payback 
replaced the rule of law, and the rule of law is fundamental to economic 
freedom.

When the heavy hand of government replaces the invisible hand of the 
market, economic freedom is the inevitable victim.

For centuries, the American Dream has meant the opportunity to build 
something new. Some of America’s greatest success stories are of people who 
started out with nothing but a good idea and a corner in their garage. Too 
often today, Americans look at what it takes to start a business and they 
don’t see promise and opportunity. They see government standing in their 
way.

The real cost isn’t just the taxes paid and money spent complying with the 
rules. It’s the businesses that are never started, the ideas that are never 
pursued, the dreams that are deferred.

We once built the interstate highway system and the Hoover Dam. Today, we 
can’t even build a pipeline.

We once led the world in manufacturing, exports, and infrastructure 
investment. Today, we lead the world in lawsuits.

Labor unions once served as a symbol of worker rights, fair treatment, and 
a growing middle class. Today, they too often represent the worst of 
special interests and crony capitalism.

But, now, after spending three years attacking business, President Obama 
hopes to erase his record with a speech. In a recent address, he said that, 
“We are inventors. We are builders. We are makers of things. We are Thomas 
Edison. We are the Wright Brothers. We are Bill Gates. We are Steve Jobs.”

The reality is that, under President Obama’s administration, these pioneers 
would have found it much more difficult, if not impossible, to innovate, 
invent, and create.

Under Dodd-Frank, they would have struggled to get loans from their 
community banks.

A regulator would have shut down the Wright Brothers for their “dust 
pollution.”

And the government would have banned Thomas Edison’s light bulb. Oh yeah, 
Obama’s regulators actually did just that.

Every great innovation, every world-changing business breakthrough begins 
with a dream. And nothing is more fragile than a dream. It is essential to 
the genius of America that we have developed a culture that nurtures these 
dreams and dreamers, that honors them and, yes, rewards them.

There has always been something uniquely brilliant about America. I don't 
believe this President understands this fundamental secret of America. And 
day by day, job-killing regulation by regulation, bureaucrat by bureaucrat, 
he is crushing the dream and the dreamers.

If we continue along this path, our lives will be ruled by bureaucrats and 
boards, commissions and czars. That path erodes freedom. It deadens the 
entrepreneurial spirit.

Freedom is becoming the victim of unbounded government appetite – and so is 
economic growth, job growth, and wage growth. As government takes more and 
more, there is less and less incentive to take risk, to invest, to 
innovate, and to hire.

The proof is in this weak recovery. This administration thinks our economy 
is struggling because the stimulus was too small. The truth is we’re 
struggling because our government is too big.

I am running for President because I have the experience and the vision to 
get us out of this mess. I am offering a real choice and a new beginning. 
And I have a conservative economic plan that will deliver more jobs, less 
debt, and smaller government.

My agenda takes America in the right direction. It preserves freedom. It 
encourages risk and innovation. It fosters competition. It allows Americans 
to pursue happiness as they choose – and will lead to greater opportunity.

Instead of expanding the government, I will shrink it.

Instead of raising taxes, I will cut them.

Instead of adding more regulations, I will reduce them with an overriding 
concern: do they help or do they hurt jobs?

That’s just the beginning. There is still more we can do. Before we can 
create enduring prosperity, we must restore our economic freedom.

To build a strong America, we must empower Americans to pursue happiness as 
they choose, not as government directs.

We must restore the world’s most competitive economy, not relinquish it to 
cronies and bureaucrats.

We must elect a President who puts his faith in free people, in free 
enterprises – and in the founding principles that made this country the 
greatest nation in history.

Together, let’s restore America’s promise by renewing our economic freedom. 
Let us affirm our conviction that America is a land of opportunity and 
usher in a new era of enduring prosperity and American leadership.

Thank you. God bless America.

