02/04/12 – Nevada Caucus Victory Speech

 Tweet
 

Tonight, I want to thank the people of Nevada. Once again, you have given 
me your vote of confidence. And this time, I intend to take it all the way 
to the White House!

Four years ago, candidate Obama came to Nevada, promising to help. But 
after he was elected, his help was telling people to skip coming here for 
conventions and meetings. Today, Nevada unemployment is over 12%, home 
values have plummeted, and Nevada’s foreclosure rate is the highest in the 
nation. I’ve walked in Nevada neighborhoods, blighted by abandoned homes, 
where people wonder why Barack Obama failed them.

Mr. President, Nevada has had enough of your kind of help!

Three years ago, a newly elected President Obama told America that if 
Congress approved his plan to borrow nearly a trillion dollars, he would 
hold unemployment below 8%. It hasn’t been below 8% since.

This week he’s been trying to take a bow for 8.3% unemployment. Not so 
fast, Mr. President. This is the 36th straight month with unemployment 
above the red line your own administration drew. And if you take into 
account all the people who are struggling for work or who have just stopped 
looking, the real unemployment rate is over 15%.

Mr. President, America has also had enough of your kind of help!

Let me ask you a question. Did Obamacare encourage businesses to hire more 
people? No.

Did the Dodd-Frank Act get banks to renegotiate or make more loans?

Did the NLRB’s attack on Boeing in South Carolina encourage employers to 
expand?

Did efforts to block the domestic production of energy and the Keystone 
Pipeline speed job creation?

And did those billions of dollars the President sent to his green energy 
buddies give anyone here a job?

Mr. President, we welcome any good news on the jobs front, but it is thanks 
to the innovation of the American people in the private sector, not to you!

This President’s misguided policies made these tough times last longer.

Earlier this week, he spoke with a woman from Texas during an online event. 
She told him that her husband has been out of work for three years. 
President Obama said he found that “interesting.”

Interesting? Really? I’ve got a better word: tragic. America needs a 
President who can fix the economy because he understands the economy!

This President began his presidency by apologizing for America. He should 
now be apologizing to America.

We won’t settle for a President who tells us it could be worse. What 
defines us as Americans is our unwavering conviction that things must be 
better. That conviction guides our campaign. It has rallied millions of 
Americans to our cause, including tens of thousands of Nevadans who gave me 
their support today!

They know that our future is brighter and better than these troubled times.

It is better than 15% real unemployment.

It is better than $15 trillion in debt.

It is better than the misguided policies and broken promises of the last 
three years – and the failed leadership of one man.

Our campaign is about more than replacing a President. It is about saving 
the soul of America.

President Obama wants to “fundamentally transform” America. We want to 
restore America to the founding principles that made this country great. 
Our vision for the future could not be more different than his.

President Obama will grow government and amass more trillion-dollar 
deficits. I will not just slow the growth of government, I will cut it. I 
will not just freeze government’s share of the total economy, I will reduce 
it. And, without raising taxes, I will finally balance the budget.

President Obama’s brand of capitalism sends your money to his friends’ 
companies. My vision for free enterprise is to return entrepreneurship to 
the genius of consumer markets and to the creativity of the American 
people.

Like his colleagues in the faculty lounge who think they know better, 
President Obama demonizes and denigrates almost every sector of our 
economy. I will make America the most attractive place in the world for 
entrepreneurs, for innovators, and for job creators. And unlike the other 
people running for President, I know how to do that. If elected President, 
my priority will be worrying about your job, not saving my own.

On one of the most personal matters of our lives, our health care, 
President Obama would turn decision making over to government bureaucrats. 
He forced through Obamacare; I will repeal it.

President Obama orders religious organizations to violate their conscience; 
I will defend religious liberty and overturn regulations that trample on 
our first freedom.

President Obama is shrinking our military and hollowing out our national 
defense. I will insist on a military so powerful that no one would ever 
think of challenging it.

President Obama believes America’s role as leader in the world is a thing 
of the past. I believe the 21st century will be and must be an American 
century.

Our mission is to increase the freedom and opportunity of the American 
people. Our blueprint is the Constitution of the United States. We will 
build an America where “hope” is a new job with a paycheck, not a faded 
word on an old bumper sticker.

I will not attempt to bribe the voters with promises of new programs, new 
subsidies, and ever-increasing checks from government. If this election is 
a bidding war for who can promise the most benefits, then I’m not your 
President. You have that President today.

But if you want to make this election about restoring American greatness, 
then I hope you will join us.

If you believe the disappointments of the last few years are a detour, not 
our destiny, then I am asking for your vote.

I am asking each of you to remember how special it is to be an American.

I want you to remember why it was that you or your ancestors sacrificed to 
come to America and to overcome the challenges of life in a new country.

It was not for a free ticket. It was for freedom.

It was not for the pursuit of government benefits. It was for the pursuit 
of happiness.

We still believe in that America.

We still believe in the America that is a land of opportunity and a beacon 
of freedom. We believe in the America that challenges each of us to be 
better and bigger than ourselves.

This election, let’s fight for the America we love. We believe in America.

Thank you. And God bless America.

