02/07/12 – We Don’t Need Higher Taxes

 Tweet
 

We Don't Need Higher Taxes


By Mitt Romney
February 7th, 2012

Our federal government must balance its budget. During his three years in 
office, President Obama has led America in the opposite direction. He's 
shunned fiscal responsibility for exploding deficits and placed our country 
on the treacherous path down which nations like Greece and Italy are 
traveling today.

The president has allowed spending to explode on his watch, from a 
historical average of about 19% of GDP up to 25% of GDP. While no other 
president had ever run a $1 trillion deficit, he will run one every year of 
his administration. By the end of his first term, President Obama will have 
added nearly as much publicly held debt as all 43 prior presidents 
combined.

When Republicans forced him to face facts last summer in negotiations over 
raising the debt ceiling, his response was to propose tax increases. But 
higher taxes are the last thing our struggling economy needs, and would 
only be an invitation to spend more. If we can restore our government to 
its pre-Obama size, existing tax revenues are roughly capable of funding 
it. In short, the government does not have a revenue problem; it has a 
spending problem.

As president, I will firmly oppose tax increases. I will make today's low 
individual tax rates permanent, cut business taxes, and make the tough 
calls necessary to bring spending back in line with what we can afford. I 
will cap spending at 20% of GDP by 2016, which will require between $400 
billion and $500 billion in cuts.

And I have a specific plan that identifies the majority of those cuts, from 
repealing "ObamaCare" to privatizing Amtrak to reducing the federal 
workforce through attrition. Unlike the president, I have also proposed 
serious reforms to strengthen Medicare and Social Security while 
controlling their costs. And unlike the president, I will pursue 
fundamental tax reform that makes our system simpler, flatter and fairer.

As governor of Massachusetts, I worked with Democrats and Republicans to 
close an enormous deficit and balance our budget four straight years, all 
while cutting taxes 19 times. When the American people compare my record 
and plan with President Obama's, I am confident they will choose the 
smaller, simpler and smarter vision of government I offer.

