02/03/12 – President Obama Versus Religious Liberty

 Tweet
 

President Obama Versus Religious Liberty


By Mitt Romney
February 3rd, 2012

The Obama administration is at it again. They are now using Obamacare to 
impose a secular vision on Americans who believe that they should not have 
their religious freedom taken away.

On January 20, 2012, the Obama administration affirmed a rule that would 
force Roman Catholic hospitals, charities, and universities to purchase 
health insurance for their employees that includes coverage for 
contraception, abortifacients, and sterilization, in violation of their 
religious principles. This is wrong.

My own view is clear. I stand with the Catholic Bishops and all religious 
organizations in their strenuous objection to this liberty- and 
conscience-stifling regulation. I am committed to overturning Obamacare 
root and branch. If I am elected President, on day one of my administration 
I will issue an executive order directing my Secretary of Health and Human 
Services to issue a waiver from its requirements to all 50 states. And on 
day one I will eliminate the Obama administration rule that compels 
religious institutions to violate the tenets of their own faith. Such rules 
don’t belong in the America that I believe in.

The America I believe in is governed by the U.S. Constitution and I will 
not hesitate to use the powers of the presidency to protect religious 
liberty.

Religious liberty is at the heart of the American experiment. As a nation 
founded in part by religious dissenters, we enshrined it as the first 
freedom in our Bill of Rights. “Congress shall make no law respecting an 
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof” is how 
the First Amendment begins. James Madison put the moral principle behind 
the amendment succinctly: "Conscience is the most sacred of all property." 
And accompanying the moral principle came the social principle that only 
religious liberty could ensure tranquility in a new land composed of men 
and women of differing faiths.

But, now, more than two centuries after the drafting of the Bill of Rights, 
religious liberty is facing the most serious assault in generations. And 
the assault is coming from liberalism itself. In the process of 
implementing Obamacare, the Obama administration is pressing forward with a 
rule that tramples on religious freedom, taking particular aim at Roman 
Catholics. The Obama administration is forcing religious institutions to 
choose between violating their conscience or dropping health care coverage 
for their employees, effectively destroying their ability to carry on their 
work.

Those of us who object have an irrefutable case. American courts have long 
held as a foundational principle the right of religious institutions to 
control their own affairs. It was reaffirmed by the Supreme Court as 
recently as January 11 in a case involving ministerial hiring. It is 
notable that in that case, Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church v. 
EEOC, the Obama administration was also challenging the basic time-honored 
principle of ecclesiastical autonomy. But a unanimous Court rejected the 
Obama administration’s position, declaring it to be “extreme” and 
explaining that the suit was “hard to square with the text of the First 
Amendment itself, which gives special solicitude to the rights of religious 
organizations.”

Seemingly in line with this “special solicitude,” the Obama administration 
has put forward a “religious employer” exemption regarding contraception 
and sterilization insurance coverage. Unfortunately, the Obama 
administration lawyers narrowed its actual force almost to the vanishing 
point. It only applies to religious organizations engaged primarily in 
serving people of the same religion. But that is not what many religious 
institutions do; serving the broad public is the essence of their divine 
mission. Accordingly, they will be compelled to provide health coverage to 
which they object as a matter of conscience.

In an effort to mollify the Bishops, Health and Human Services has now 
given religious institutions an additional twelve months to comply. That 
twelve-month extension is a clumsy attempt to push this matter past this 
year’s presidential election. As long as the rule hovers in front of us, we 
must keep up the battle. In a polity that provides all manners of exemption 
on the basis of religious freedom, it is an appalling trespass on the First 
Amendment.

Liberals and conservatives have made common cause to defend the rights of 
religious minorities in the past. But somehow, today, when it comes to the 
agenda of the left-wing of the Democratic Party—those who brought us 
abortion on demand and who fight against the teaching of abstinence 
education in our children’s schools—their devotion to religious freedom 
goes out the window. They would force Catholics and others who have beliefs 
rooted in their faith to sacrifice the teachings of their faith to the 
mandate of federal bureaucrats.

It is a prerequisite to the preservation of our liberty that our government 
not dictate to religious institutions the principles by which they are to 
carry out their charitable and divine mission. Religious liberty and 
freedom of conscience flow from the common conviction that it is freedom 
not coercion that exalts the individual, just as it raises up the nation.

What the Obama administration has done is indefensible. But this is about 
even more than President Obama denying America’s Catholics their 
constitutionally protected rights. This is about the preservation of our 
freedom. We must come together to make sure that these egregious violations 
of our Constitution do not stand.

