02/16/12 – How I’ll Respond to China’s Rising Power

 Tweet
 

How I'll Respond to China's Rising Power


By Mitt Romney
February 16th, 2012

Should the 21st century be an American century? To answer, it is only 
necessary to contemplate the alternatives.

One much bruited these days is that of a Chinese century. With China's 
billion-plus population, its 10% annual average growth rates, and its 
burgeoning military power, a China that comes to dominate Asia and much of 
the globe is increasingly becoming thinkable. The character of the Chinese 
government—one that marries aspects of the free market with suppression of 
political and personal freedom—would become a widespread and disquieting 
norm.

But the dawn of a Chinese century—and the end of an American one—is not 
inevitable. America possesses inherent strengths that grant us a 
competitive advantage over China and the rest of the world. We must, 
however, restore those strengths.

That means shoring up our fiscal and economic standing, rebuilding our 
military, and renewing faith in our values. We must apply these strengths 
in our policy toward China to make its path to regional hegemony far more 
costly than the alternative path of becoming a responsible partner in the 
international system.

Barack Obama is moving in precisely the wrong direction. The shining 
accomplishment of the meetings in Washington this week with Xi 
Jinping—China's vice president and likely future leader—was empty pomp and 
ceremony.

President Obama came into office as a near supplicant to Beijing, almost 
begging it to continue buying American debt so as to finance his profligate 
spending here at home. His administration demurred from raising issues of 
human rights for fear it would compromise agreement on the global economic 
crisis or even "the global climate-change crisis." Such weakness has only 
encouraged Chinese assertiveness and made our allies question our staying 
power in East Asia.

Now, three years into his term, the president has belatedly responded with 
a much-ballyhooed "pivot" to Asia, a phrase that may prove to be as 
gimmicky and vacuous as his "reset" with Russia. The supposed pivot has 
been oversold and carries with it an unintended consequence: It has left 
our allies with the worrying impression that we left the region and might 
do so again.

The pivot is also vastly under-resourced. Despite his big talk about 
bolstering our military position in Asia, President Obama's actions will 
inevitably weaken it. He plans to cut back on naval shipbuilding, shrink 
our Air Force, and slash our ground forces. Because of his policies and 
failed leadership, our military is facing nearly $1 trillion in cuts over 
the next decade.

We must change course.

In the economic arena, we must directly counter abusive Chinese practices 
in the areas of trade, intellectual property, and currency valuation. While 
I am prepared to work with Chinese leaders to ensure that our countries 
both benefit from trade, I will not continue an economic relationship that 
rewards China's cheating and penalizes American companies and workers.

Unless China changes its ways, on day one of my presidency I will designate 
it a currency manipulator and take appropriate counteraction. A trade war 
with China is the last thing I want, but I cannot tolerate our current 
trade surrender.

We must also maintain military forces commensurate to the long-term 
challenge posed by China's build-up. For more than a decade now we have 
witnessed double-digit increases in China's officially reported military 
spending. And even that does not capture the full extent of its spending on 
defense. Nor do the gross numbers tell us anything about the most troubling 
aspects of China's strategy, which is designed to exert pressure on China's 
neighbors and blunt the ability of the United States to project power into 
the Pacific and keep the peace from which China itself has benefited.

To preserve our military presence in Asia, I am determined to reverse the 
Obama administration's defense cuts and maintain a strong military presence 
in the Pacific. This is not an invitation to conflict. Instead, this policy 
is a guarantee that the region remains open for cooperative trade, and that 
economic opportunity and democratic freedom continue to flourish across 
East Asia.

We must also forthrightly confront the fact that the Chinese government 
continues to deny its people basic political freedoms and human rights. If 
the U.S. fails to support dissidents out of fear of offending the Chinese 
government, if we fail to speak out against the barbaric practices entailed 
by China's compulsory one-child policy, we will merely embolden China's 
leaders at the expense of greater liberty.

A nation that represses its own people cannot ultimately be a trusted 
partner in an international system based on economic and political freedom. 
While it is obvious that any lasting democratic reform in China cannot be 
imposed from the outside, it is equally obvious that the Chinese people 
currently do not yet enjoy the requisite civil and political rights to turn 
internal dissent into effective reform.

I will never flinch from ensuring that our country is secure. And security 
in the Pacific means a world in which our economic and military power is 
second to none. It also means a world in which American values—the values 
of liberty and opportunity—continue to prevail over those of oppression and 
authoritarianism.

The sum total of my approach will ensure that this is an American, not a 
Chinese century. We have much to gain from close relations with a China 
that is prosperous and free. But we should not fail to recognize that a 
China that is a prosperous tyranny will increasingly pose problems for us, 
for its neighbors, and for the entire world.

