03/22/12 Ð Why IÕd Repeal Obamacare

 Tweet
 

Why I'd Repeal Obamacare


By Mitt Romney
March 22, 2012

Friday is the second anniversary of Obamacare. It is past time to abolish 
the program, root and branch. The Supreme Court will soon have a crack at 
this; arguments about the program's constitutionality open before it next 
week. But whatever the justices decide in what is certain to be a landmark 
decision, the case against Obamacare extends far beyond questions about its 
constitutionality. President Obama's program is an unfolding disaster for 
the American economy, a budget-busting entitlement, and a dramatic new 
federal intrusion into our lives.

It is precisely for those reasons that I've opposed a one-size-fits-all 
health care plan for the entire nation. What we need is a free market, 
federalist approach to making quality, affordable health insurance 
available to every American. Each state should be allowed to pursue its own 
solution in this regard, instead of being dictated to by Washington.

But abolishing Obamacare will only be half the battle. Just as important is 
the question of what to put in its place. Instead of the massive new taxes, 
trillions of dollars in new spending, and top-down bureaucratic decrees of 
Obamacare, we need to limit Washington's control by spurring competition, 
creating maximum flexibility and enhancing consumer choice.

I would begin by changing the tax code, which currently offers a subsidy 
for employers who purchase health insurance for their employees. This 
discriminates against individuals who want to buy insurance on their own. 
We should let individuals continue with the current arrangement if it suits 
their needs. But I would also offer a tax benefit for those who wish to 
purchase insurance outside their workplace.

A key question is how to provide care for the poor, the uninsured and the 
chronically ill. My program begins by taking seriously the words of the 
10th Amendment to the Constitution: "The powers not delegated to the United 
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are 
reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." In line with the 
intentions of our Founding Fathers, I favor giving each of the 50 states 
the resources and the responsibility to craft the health care solutions 
that suit their citizens best.

When I was governor of Massachusetts, we instituted a plan that got our 
citizens insured without raising taxes and without a government takeover. 
Other states will choose to go in different directions. It is the genius of 
federalism that it encourages experimentation, with each state pursuing 
what works best for them. Obamacare's disregard for this core aspect of 
U.S. tradition is one of its most egregious failings.

To the extent that we have any federal regulation, it should focus on 
helping markets work. Thus, to take one much discussed problem, individuals 
with pre-existing conditions who have maintained continuous health 
insurance coverage should be guaranteed the ability to retain coverage. 
Also, individuals are currently prohibited from purchasing health insurance 
across states lines, which reduces competition and makes many plans subject 
to expensive state benefit requirements. The federal government can open up 
these restricted markets. States could still regulate their insurance 
industries, but consumers across the U.S. would benefit from lower costs 
and greater choice.

Finally, we need to address out-of-control medical malpractice litigation, 
which is costly not only in direct terms, but also in its distortion of the 
way patient care is administered. We can start by capping non-economic 
damages, but the federal government should also encourage states to pursue 
additional reforms such as specialized health care courts or other 
alternatives for resolving conflicts.

The reforms I propose for the country could not be more different from 
Barack Obama's. They entail no new taxes, no massive diversions of funds 
away from Medicare, no tax discrimination, and no new bureaucracies. At the 
same time, they increase consumer choice, lower health care costs, decrease 
government spending, and give states responsibility for dealing with the 
uninsured. Whatever the Supreme Court decides about the constitutionality 
of Obamacare, we already know that it is bad policy and wrong for America. 
Abolishing it and putting sensible changes in its place will be one of my 
highest priorities as president.

