01/10/12 – Mitt Romney’s New Hampshire Primary Victory Speech

 Tweet
 

Thank you, New Hampshire! Tonight, we made history!

This state has always been a special place for our family. Ann and I made a 
home here and we’ve filled it with great memories of our children and 
grandchildren. And this Granite State moment is one we will always 
remember.

Tonight, we celebrate. Tomorrow, we go back to work.

We remember when Barack Obama came to New Hampshire four years ago.

He promised to bring people together.

He promised to change the broken system in Washington.

He promised to improve our nation.

Those were the days of lofty promises made by a hopeful candidate. Today, 
we are faced with the disappointing record of a failed President. The last 
three years have held a lot of change, but they haven’t offered much hope.

The middle class has been crushed. Nearly 24 million of our fellow 
Americans are still out of work, struggling to find work, or have just 
stopped looking. The median income has dropped 10% in four years. Soldiers 
returning from the front lines are waiting in unemployment lines. Our debt 
is too high and our opportunities too few.

And this President wakes up every morning, looks out across America and is 
proud to announce, “It could be worse.”

It could be worse? Is that what it means to be an American? It could be 
worse?

Of course not.

What defines us as Americans is our unwavering conviction that we know it 
must be better.

That conviction guides our campaign. It has rallied millions of Americans 
in every corner of this country to our cause.

Over the last six months, I’ve listened to anxious voices in town meetings 
and visited with students and soldiers. In break rooms and living rooms, 
I’ve heard stories of families getting by on less, of carefully planned 
retirements now replaced by jobs at minimum wage. But even now, amidst the 
worst economy since the Great Depression, I’ve rarely heard a refrain of 
hopelessness.

Americans know that our future is brighter and better than these troubled 
times. We still believe in the hope, the promise, and the dream of America. 
We still believe in that shining city on a hill.

We know that the future of this country is better than 8 or 9% 
unemployment.

It is better than $15 trillion in debt.

It is better than the misguided policies and broken promises of the last 
three years – and the failed leadership of one man.

The President has run out of ideas. Now, he’s running out of excuses. And 
tonight, we are asking the good people of South Carolina to join the 
citizens of New Hampshire and make 2012 the year he runs out of time.

President Obama wants to put free enterprise on trial. In the last few 
days, we have seen some desperate Republicans join forces with him. This is 
such a mistake for our Party and for our nation. This country already has a 
leader who divides us with the bitter politics of envy. We must offer an 
alternative vision. I stand ready to lead us down a different path, where 
we are lifted up by our desire to succeed, not dragged down by a resentment 
of success. In these difficult times, we cannot abandon the core values 
that define us as unique — We are One Nation, Under God.

Make no mistake, in this campaign, I will offer the American ideals of 
economic freedom a clear and unapologetic defense.

Our campaign is about more than replacing a President; it is about saving 
the soul of America. This election is a choice between two very different 
destinies.

President Obama wants to “fundamentally transform” America. We want to 
restore America to the founding principles that made this country great.

He wants to turn America into a European-style entitlement society. We want 
to ensure that we remain a free and prosperous land of opportunity.

This President takes his inspiration from the capitals of Europe; we look 
to the cities and small towns of America.

This President puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the 
American people.

He is making the federal government bigger, burdensome, and bloated. I will 
make it simpler, smaller, and smarter.

He raised the national debt. I will cut, cap, and balance the budget.

He enacted job-killing regulations; I’ll eliminate them.

He lost our AAA credit rating; I’ll restore it.

He passed Obamacare; I’ll repeal it.

When it comes to the economy, my highest priority as President will be 
worrying about your job, not saving my own.

Internationally, President Obama has adopted an appeasement strategy. He 
believes America’s role as leader in the world is a thing of the past. I 
believe a strong America must – and will – lead the future.

He doesn’t see the need for overwhelming American military superiority. I 
will insist on a military so powerful no one would think of challenging it.

He chastises friends like Israel; I’ll stand with our friends.

He apologizes for America; I will never apologize for the greatest nation 
in the history of the Earth.

Our plans protect freedom and opportunity, and our blueprint is the 
Constitution of the United States.

The path I lay out is not one paved with ever increasing government checks 
and cradle-to-grave assurances that government will always be the solution. 
If this election is a bidding war for who can promise more benefits, then 
I’m not your President. You have that President today.

But if you want to make this election about restoring American greatness, 
then I hope you will join us.

If you believe the disappointments of the last few years are a detour, not 
our destiny, then I am asking for your vote.

I’m asking each of you to remember how special it is to be an American.

I want you to remember what it was like to be hopeful and excited about the 
future, not to dread each new headline.

I want you to remember when you spent more time dreaming about where to 
send your kids to college than wondering how to make it to the next 
paycheck.

I want you to remember when you weren’t afraid to look at your retirement 
savings or the price at the pump.

I want you to remember when our White House reflected the best of who we 
are, not the worst of what Europe has become.

That America is still out there. We still believe in that America.

We still believe in the America that is a land of opportunity and a beacon 
of freedom. We believe in the America that challenges each of us to be 
better and bigger than ourselves.

This election, let’s fight for the America we love. We believe in America.

Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.

