03/05/12 – Restoring the American Promise

 Tweet
 

Restoring the American Promise


By Mitt Romney
March 5th, 2012

Not long ago, most Americans grew up believing that the future was full of 
possibility. We felt the joyful optimism that comes from being raised in a 
land of opportunity, a place where – with risk-taking and hard work – 
anyone can make a better life.

That deep confidence in a better tomorrow is the basic promise of America. 
Today, that promise has been threatened by a faltering economy and a lack 
of presidential leadership.

For 36 months, the unemployment rate has been over 8 percent. 24 million of 
our fellow Americans are struggling to find work. There are 3 million 
“missing workers” who have given up on finding a job altogether. Home 
values continue to fall, foreclosures are at a record high. Our debt is too 
great, and our opportunities too few.

I’ve traveled the land and everywhere I go, I meet Americans who are 
suffering greatly. You can see it on their faces and hear it in their 
voices. I’ve met parents who are struggling to get by with one working the 
day shift while the other works at night just so they can make ends meet. 
I’ve met graduating college kids facing loan payments and a bad economy, 
and they are worried that they won’t be able to get a job. This is not the 
way America needs to be.

President Obama promised he would fix three things. First, he said he would 
hold unemployment under 8%; it hasn’t been under 8% for 36 months. Then, he 
said he was going to cut the deficit in half; he’s doubled it. Third, he 
said he’d make Medicare and Social Security solvent for future generations. 
Three years later, he still hasn’t offered a serious proposal for either 
one.

We have not seen a failure to communicate. We have seen a failure to lead.

I am running for President to offer more than just a change in policy. I am 
offering a dramatic change in perspective and philosophy. We need a 
comprehensive set of pro-growth policies that will get our economy moving 
again.

"I aim for more jobs, less debt, smaller government. I aim to restore the 
promise of America. Nothing less.”

Reforming our tax code is critical. I will lower taxes to lighten the 
burden on middle-income Americans and to reignite the economy. A key 
measure will be an across-the-board, 20% reduction in marginal individual 
income tax rates. By reducing the tax on the next dollar of income earned 
by all taxpayers, we will encourage hard work and productivity by allowing 
Americans to keep more of what they earn.

The businesses that pay taxes through the individual income tax system 
account for more than half of all private sector jobs in the United States. 
So this tax cut will encourage businesses to hire, raise wages, and grow 
the economy.

I will reduce the corporate tax rate to 25%. Currently, it’s among the 
highest in the developed world; I will bring it in line with other nations, 
making America a place where investment capital flows. I will end the 
job-killing repatriation tax, so American companies who do business 
overseas will bring their profits here and invest at home.

I will promote savings and investment by maintaining the 15% rate on 
capital gains and dividends. I will eliminate the tax entirely for those 
with annual income below $200,000. These low tax rates will encourage 
Americans to save and invest – and they will encourage business investment 
and economic growth. I will repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax, and I will 
abolish the death tax.

By making bold cuts in spending and commonsense entitlement reforms, we 
will make our government simpler, smaller, and smarter. Through pro-growth 
policies, by abolishing Obamacare and eliminating other Obama-imposed 
impediments to economic growth, we will get our economy back on track. 
Taken together, the plan I’m offering represents the most substantial 
reform of the federal government in modern history. I aim for more jobs, 
less debt, smaller government. I aim to restore the promise of America. 
Nothing less.

