09/19/12 Ð IÕll Deliver Recovery, Not Dependency

 Tweet
 

I'll Deliver Recovery, Not Dependency


By Mitt Romney
USA Today
September 19, 2012

Since our founding, America has promoted personal responsibility, the 
dignity of work and the value of education. Those values made our nation 
the hope of the earth and our economy the envy of the world.

Efforts that promote hard work and personal responsibility over government 
dependency make America strong. When the economy is growing and Americans 
are working, everyone involved has a shared sense of achievement, not to 
mention the basic sense of pride that comes with the paycheck they earn.

However, over the past four years, those kinds of opportunities have been 
in short supply. We're experiencing the worst recovery since the Great 
Depression. Unemployment has been above 8% for 43 straight months; 47 
million Americans are on food stamps. Nearly one in six Americans now live 
in poverty.

Under President Obama, we have a stagnant economy that fosters government 
dependency. My policies will create a growing economy that fosters upward 
mobility.

Government has a role to play here. Right now, our nation's citizens do 
need help from government. But it is a very different kind of help than 
what President Obama wants to provide.
Rate the debate

My experience has taught me that government works best when it creates the 
space for individuals and families to pursue success and achieve great 
things. Economic freedom is the only force that has consistently succeeded 
in creating sustained prosperity and lifting people out of poverty. It is 
why our economy rose to rival those of the world's leading powers -- and 
has long since surpassed them all.

The dreamers and the entrepreneurs, not government, built this economy, and 
they can once again make it strong.

My course for the American economy will encourage private investment and 
personal freedom. Instead of creating a web of dependency, I will pursue 
policies that grow our economy and lift Americans out of poverty.

My five-point plan will deliver the economic recovery we've all been 
waiting for and the jobs millions of Americans still need. This can be more 
than our hope; it can be our future. And it can start this November with 
your vote.

