08/11/12 – Mitt Romney Makes His VP Announcement

 Tweet
 

Mitt Romney today delivered the following remarks in Norfolk, Virginia 
after he selected Paul Ryan to be his Vice Presidential running mate:

    Ladies and gentlemen:

    It’s great to be back in Virginia and here in Norfolk. Your city's
    beauty is only matched by its proud heritage as a defender of freedom.
    Today we take another step forward in helping restore the promise of
    America. As we move forward in this campaign and on to help lead the
    nation to better days, it is an honor to announce my running mate and
    the next Vice President of the United States: Paul Ryan.

    Paul Ryan is a leader.

    His leadership begins with character and values. And Paul is a man of
    tremendous character, shaped in large part by his early life.

    Paul’s father died when he was in high school. That forced him to grow
    up earlier than any young man should. But Paul did, with the help of
    his devoted mother, his brothers and sister, and a supportive
    community. And as he did, he internalized the virtues and hard-working
    ethic of the Midwest.

    Paul Ryan works in Washington – but his beliefs remain firmly rooted in
    Janesville, Wisconsin. He is a person of great steadiness, whose
    integrity is unquestioned and whose word is good.

    Paul’s upbringing is obvious in how he has conducted himself throughout
    his life, including his leadership in Washington.

    In a city that is far too often characterized by pettiness and personal
    attacks, Paul Ryan is a shining exception. He does not demonize his
    opponents. He understands that honorable people can have honest
    differences. And he appeals to the better angels of our nature. There
    are a lot of people in the other party who might disagree with Paul
    Ryan; I don’t know of anyone who doesn’t respect his character and
    judgment.

    Paul is in public life for all the right reasons – not to advance his
    personal ambitions but to advance the ideals of freedom and justice;
    and to increase opportunity and prosperity to people of every class and
    faith, every age and ethnic background. A faithful Catholic, Paul
    believes in the worth and dignity of every human life.

    With energy and vision, Paul Ryan has become an intellectual leader of
    the Republican Party. He understands the fiscal challenges facing
    America: our exploding deficits and crushing debt – and the fiscal
    catastrophe that awaits us if we don’t change course.

    Paul Ryan combines a profound sense of responsibility for what we owe
    the next generation with an unbounded optimism in America’s future and
    an understanding of all the wonderful things the American people can
    do.

    Paul also combines firm principles with a practical concern for getting
    things done. He has never been content to simply curse the darkness; he
    would rather light candles. And throughout his legislative career he’s
    shown the ability to work with members of both parties to find common
    ground on some of the hardest issues confronting the American people.

    Paul and I are beginning on a journey that will take us to every corner
    of America. We are offering a positive, governing agenda that will lead
    to economic growth, to widespread and shared prosperity, and that will
    improve the lives of our fellow citizens. Our Plan to Strengthen The
    Middle Class will get America back to work and get our country back on
    track.

    We offer solutions that are bold, specific, and achievable. We offer
    our commitment to help create 12 million new jobs and to bring better
    take home pay to middle class families.

    To strengthen the middle class, we will provide our workers and our
    children with the skills to succeed. We’ll cut the deficit, have trade
    that works for America, and champion small business. And finally, we
    will unleash our energy resources to achieve North American energy
    independence.

    We will help care for those who cannot care for themselves, and we will
    return work to welfare. As poverty has risen to historic and tragic
    levels, with nearly one out of six Americans now having fallen into
    poverty, we will act to bring these families into the middle class.
    Unlike the current president who has cut Medicare funding by $700
    billion, we will preserve and protect Medicare and Social Security.
    Under the current president, healthcare has only become more expensive.
    We will reform healthcare so that more Americans have access to
    affordable healthcare, and we will get that started by repealing and
    replacing Obamacare.

    And at a time when the President's campaign is taking American politics
    to new lows, we are going to do things differently. We are going to
    talk about aspirations and American ideals; about bringing people
    together to solve the urgent problems facing our nation. And when that
    message wins in America, it will be a victory for every American.

    Today is a good day for America. And there are better days ahead. Join
    me in welcoming the next Vice President of the United States - Paul
    Ryan.

Congressman Paul Ryan today delivered the following remarks in Norfolk, 
Virginia after Mitt Romney selected him to be his Vice Presidential running 
mate:

    Thank you Governor Romney, Ann. I am deeply honored and excited to join
    you as your running mate.

    Mitt Romney is a leader with the skills, the background and the
    character that our country needs at a crucial time in its history.
    Following four years of failed leadership, the hopes of our country,
    which have inspired the world, are growing dim; and they need someone
    to revive them. Governor Romney is the man for this moment; and he and
    I share one commitment: we will restore the dreams and greatness of
    this country.

    I want you to meet my family. My wife Janna, our daughter Liza, and our
    sons, Charlie and Sam.

    I am surrounded by the people I love, and I have been asked by Governor
    Romney to serve the country I love.

    Janesville, Wisconsin is where I was born and raised, and I never
    really left it. It’s our home now.

    For the last 14 years, I have proudly represented Wisconsin in
    Congress. There, I have focused on solving the problems that confront
    our country, and turning ideas into action; and action into solutions.

    I am committed, in heart and mind, to putting that experience to work
    in a Romney Administration. This is a crucial moment in the life of our
    nation; and it is absolutely vital that we select the right man to lead
    America back to prosperity and greatness.

    That man is standing next to me. His name is Mitt Romney. And he will
    be the next president of the United States

    My dad died when I was young. He was a good and decent man. I still
    remember a couple of things he would say that have really stuck with
    me. "Son you are either part of the problem or part of the solution."

    Regrettably, President Obama has become part of the problem,...and Mitt
    Romney is the solution.

    The other thing my dad would say is that every generation of Americans
    leaves their children better off. That's the American legacy.

    Sadly, for the first time in our history, we are on a path which will
    undo that legacy. That is why we need new leadership to become part of
    the solution – new leadership to restore prosperity, economic growth,
    and jobs.

    It is our duty to save the American Dream for our children, and theirs.

    And I believe there is no person in America who is better prepared –
    because of his experience; because of the principles he holds; and
    because of his achievements and excellence in so many different arenas
    – to lead America at this point in its history.

    Let me say a word about the man Mitt Romney will replace. No one
    disputes President Obama inherited a difficult situation. And, in his
    first 2 years, with his party in complete control of Washington, he
    passed nearly every item on his agenda. But that didn’t make things
    better.

    In fact, we find ourselves in a nation facing debt, doubt and despair.

    This is the worst economic recovery in 70 years. Unemployment has been
    above 8 percent for more than three years, the longest run since the
    Great Depression. Families are hurting.

    We have the largest deficits and the biggest federal government since
    WWII.

    Nearly 1 out of 6 Americans are in poverty--the worst rate in a
    generation. Moms and dads are struggling to make ends meet.

    Household incomes have dropped by more than $4,000 over the past four
    years.

    Whatever the explanations, whatever the excuses, this is a record of
    failure.

    President Obama, and too many like him in Washington, have refused to
    make difficult decisions because they are more worried about their next
    election than they are about the next generation. We might have been
    able to get away with that before, but not now. We’re in a different,
    and dangerous, moment. We're running out of time -- and we can't afford
    4 more years of this.

    Politicians from both parties have made empty promises which will soon
    become broken promises--with painful consequences--if we fail to act
    now.

    I represent a part of America that includes inner cities, rural areas,
    suburbs and factory towns. Over the years I have seen and heard from a
    lot from families, from those running small businesses, and from people
    who are in need. But what I have heard lately troubles me the most.
    There is something different in their voice and in their words. What I
    hear from them are diminished dreams, lowered expectations, uncertain
    futures.

    I hear some people say that this is just "the new normal." High
    unemployment, declining incomes and crushing debt is not a new normal.
    It's the result of misguided policies. And next January, our economy
    will begin a comeback with the Romney Plan for a Stronger Middle Class
    that will lead to more jobs and more take home pay for working
    Americans.

    America is on the wrong track; but Mitt Romney and I will take the
    right steps, in the right time, to get us back on the right track!

    I believe my record of getting things done in Congress will be a very
    helpful complement to Governor Romney’s executive and private sector
    success outside Washington. I have worked closely with Republicans as
    well as Democrats to advance an agenda of economic growth, fiscal
    discipline, and job creation.

    I’m proud to stand with a man who understands what it takes to foster
    job creation in our economy, someone who knows from experience, that if
    you have a small business—you did build that.

    At Bain Capital, he launched new businesses and he turned around
    failing ones – companies like Staples, Bright Horizons and Sports
    Authority, just to name a few. Mitt Romney created jobs and showed he
    knows how a free economy works.

    At the Olympics, he took a failing enterprise and made it the pride of
    our entire nation.

    As governor of Massachusetts, he worked with Democrats and Republicans
    to balance budgets with no tax increases, lower unemployment, increase
    income and improve people’s lives.

    In all of these things, Mitt Romney has shown himself to be a man of
    achievement, excellence and integrity.

    Janna and I tell Liza, Charlie and Sam that America is a place where,
    if you work hard and play by the rules, you can get ahead.

    We Americans look at one another's success with pride, not resentment,
    because we know, as more Americans work hard, take risks, and succeed,
    more people will prosper, our communities will benefit, and individual
    lives will be improved and uplifted.

    But America is more than just a place...it's an idea. It's the only
    country founded on an idea. Our rights come from nature and God, not
    government. We promise equal opportunity, not equal outcomes.

    This idea is founded on the principles of liberty, freedom, free
    enterprise, self-determination and government by consent of the
    governed.

    This idea is under assault. So, we have a critical decision to make as
    a nation.

    We are on an unsustainable path that is robbing America of our freedom
    and security. It doesn't have to be this way.

    The commitment Mitt Romney and I make to you is this:

    We won't duck the tough issues...we will lead!

    We won't blame others...we will take responsibility!

    We won't replace our founding principles...we will reapply them!

    We will honor you, our fellow citizens, by giving you the right and
    opportunity to make the choice:

    What kind of country do we want to have?

    What kind of people do we want to be?

    We can turn this thing around. Real solutions can be delivered. But, it
    will take leadership. And the courage to tell you the truth.

    Mitt Romney is this kind of leader. I'm excited for what lies ahead and
    I'm thrilled to be a part of America's Comeback Team. And together, we
    will unite America and get this done.

    Thank you.

