03/20/12 – Illinois Victory Speech

 Tweet
 

Visit msnbc.com for breaking news  , world news
 , and news about the economy


Thank you, Illinois! What a great night!

I’d like to congratulate my fellow candidates on a hard-fought contest. I’d 
like to thank our volunteers and our friends for their hard work and 
unwavering support. And, tonight, we thank the people of Illinois for their 
vote – and for this incredible victory.

Elections are about choices. And today hundreds of thousands of Illinois 
voters have joined millions across the country in our cause.

We began this movement on a small farm in New Hampshire on a sunny June 
day, surrounded by a small group of friends, family, and supporters. We 
shared a conviction that the America we loved was in trouble and adrift 
without strong leadership. Three years of Barack Obama had brought us fewer 
jobs and shrinking paychecks, but many of us believed we were in danger of 
losing something more than the value of homes and 401(k)s.

After the years of too many apologies and not enough jobs, historic drops 
in income and historic highs in gas prices, of a President who doesn’t 
hesitate to use all means necessary to force Obamacare on the American 
public but leads from behind in world affairs, it’s time to say, “Enough!”

We know our future is better and brighter than these troubled times. We 
still believe in America – and we deserve a President who believes in us.

Yesterday I gave a speech at the University of Chicago, not far from here 
and where Professor Barack Obama taught Constitutional Law. It was a speech 
on economic freedom and as I was writing it, I thought back to the lifetime 
of experiences I’ve had learning the unique genius of the American free 
enterprise system. It started when I was just a kid, and my dad, who never 
graduated from college, would tell me about his dad, who was a contractor 
and never quite made it but never gave up.

Later I helped start companies that began just as an idea and somehow made 
it through all the inevitable difficulties to create thousands of jobs. 
Those jobs helped families buy their first homes, put kids through school, 
live better lives, dream a little bigger.

For 25 years, I lived and breathed jobs, business, and the economy. I had 
successes and failures but each step of the way, I learned a little more 
about what it is that makes our American system so powerful.

You can’t learn that teaching Constitutional law. You can’t learn that as a 
community organizer. The simple truth is that this President just doesn’t 
understand the genius of America’s economy – or the secret of our success.

The American economy is fueled by freedom. Economic freedom is the only 
force that has consistently succeeded in lifting people out of poverty. It 
is the only principle that has ever created sustained prosperity.

But, over the last three years, this administration has been engaged in an 
assault on our freedom.

Under President Obama, bureaucrats prevent drilling rigs from going to work 
in the Gulf. They keep coal from being mined. They impede the reliable 
supply of natural gas. They even tell farmers what their 15-year-old sons 
and daughters can and can't do on the family farm.

The administration’s assault on freedom has kept this so-called recovery 
from meeting their projections, let alone our expectations.

And now, the President is trying to erase his record with rhetoric. Just 
the other day, he said, “We are inventors. We are builders. We are makers 
of things. We are Thomas Edison. We are the Wright Brothers. We are Bill 
Gates. We are Steve Jobs.”

That’s true. But the problem is: he’s still Barack Obama. And under this 
President, those pioneers would have faced an uphill battle to innovate, 
invent, and create.

Under Dodd-Frank, they would have struggled to get a loan from their 
community bank.

A regulator would have shut down the Wright Brothers for their “dust 
pollution.”

And the government would have banned Thomas Edison’s light bulb. Oh, that’s 
right. They just did.

The real cost of these misguided policies are the ideas that are never 
pursued and the dreams that are never realized.

For centuries, the American Dream has meant the opportunity to build 
something new. Some of America’s greatest success stories are people who 
started out with nothing but a good idea and a corner in their garage. But 
today, Americans who want to start a new business or launch a new venture 
don’t see promise and opportunity. They see government standing in their 
way.

We once built the interstate highway system and the Hoover Dam. Today, we 
can’t even build a pipeline.

We once led the world in manufacturing, exports, and infrastructure 
investment. Today, we lead the world in lawsuits.

When we replace a law professor with a businessman, that will end.

Every great innovation, every world-changing business breakthrough begins 
with a dream. And nothing is more fragile than a dream. The genius of 
America is that we nurture these dreams and the dreamers. We honor them, 
and, yes, we reward them.

That’s part of what is uniquely brilliant about America. But day by day, 
job-killing regulation by job-killing regulation, bureaucrat by bureaucrat, 
this President is crushing the dream and the dreamers.

The proof is in this weak recovery. This administration thinks our economy 
is struggling because the stimulus was too small. The truth is our economy 
is struggling because the government is too big.

You and I know what President Obama still has not learned, even after three 
years and hundreds of billions of dollars in spending: The government does 
not create prosperity; prosperity is the product of free markets and free 
people.

This November, we face a defining decision. Our choice will not be one of 
party or personality. This election will be about principle. Our economic 
freedom will be on the ballot.

I am offering a real choice and a new beginning. I am running for President 
because I have the experience and the vision to get us out of this mess. We 
know what Barack Obama’s vision of America is – we’ve all lived it the last 
three years. Mine is very different.

I see an America where we know the prospects for our children will be 
better than our own; where the pursuit of success unites us, not divides 
us; when a government finally understands that it’s better for more to pay 
less in taxes than for a few to pay more; where the values we pass on to 
our children are greater than the debts we leave them; where poverty is 
defeated by opportunity, not enabled a government check.

I see an America that is humble but never humbled, that leads but is never 
led.

Today we took an important step toward that America. Tomorrow, we take 
another. Each day we move closer not just to victory but to a better 
America. Join us. Together, we will ensure that America’s greatest days are 
still ahead.

Thank you and God bless America.

