10/1/12 – A New Course for the Middle East

 Tweet
 

A New Course for the Middle East


By Mitt Romney
Wall Street Journal
October 1, 2012

Disturbing developments are sweeping across the greater Middle East. In 
Syria, tens of thousands of innocent people have been slaughtered. In 
Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood has come to power, and the country's peace 
treaty with Israel hangs in the balance. In Libya, our ambassador was 
murdered in a terrorist attack. U.S. embassies throughout the region have 
been stormed in violent protests. And in Iran, the ayatollahs continue to 
move full tilt toward nuclear-weapons capability, all the while promising 
to annihilate Israel.

These developments are not, as President Obama says, mere "bumps in the 
road." They are major issues that put our security at risk.

Yet amid this upheaval, our country seems to be at the mercy of events 
rather than shaping them. We're not moving them in a direction that 
protects our people or our allies.

And that's dangerous. If the Middle East descends into chaos, if Iran moves 
toward nuclear breakout, or if Israel's security is compromised, America 
could be pulled into the maelstrom.

We still have time to address these threats, but it will require a new 
strategy toward the Middle East.

The first step is to understand how we got here. Since World War II, 
America has been the leader of the Free World. We're unique in having 
earned that role not through conquest but through promoting human rights, 
free markets and the rule of law. We ally ourselves with like-minded 
countries, expand prosperity through trade and keep the peace by 
maintaining a military second to none.

But in recent years, President Obama has allowed our leadership to atrophy. 
Our economy is stuck in a "recovery" that barely deserves the name. Our 
national debt has risen to record levels. Our military, tested by a decade 
of war, is facing devastating cuts thanks to the budgetary games played by 
the White House. Finally, our values have been misapplied—and 
misunderstood—by a president who thinks that weakness will win favor with 
our adversaries.

By failing to maintain the elements of our influence and by stepping away 
from our allies, President Obama has heightened the prospect of conflict 
and instability. He does not understand that an American policy that lacks 
resolve can provoke aggression and encourage disorder.

The Middle East is a case in point. The Arab Spring presented an 
opportunity to help move millions of people from oppression to freedom. But 
it also presented grave risks. We needed a strategy for success, but the 
president offered none. And now he seeks to downplay the significance of 
the calamities of the past few weeks.

The same incomprehension afflicts the president's policy toward Israel. The 
president began his term with the explicit policy of creating "daylight" 
between our two countries. He recently downgraded Israel from being our 
"closest ally" in the Middle East to being only "one of our closest 
allies." It's a diplomatic message that will be received clearly by Israel 
and its adversaries alike. He dismissed Israel's concerns about Iran as 
mere "noise" that he prefers to "block out." And at a time when Israel 
needs America to stand with it, he declined to meet with Prime Minister 
Benjamin Netanyahu.

In this period of uncertainty, we need to apply a coherent strategy of 
supporting our partners in the Middle East—that is, both governments and 
individuals who share our values.

This means restoring our credibility with Iran. When we say an Iranian 
nuclear-weapons capability—and the regional instability that comes with 
it—is unacceptable, the ayatollahs must be made to believe us.

It means placing no daylight between the United States and Israel. And it 
means using the full spectrum of our soft power to encourage liberty and 
opportunity for those who have for too long known only corruption and 
oppression. The dignity of work and the ability to steer the course of 
their lives are the best alternatives to extremism.

But this Middle East policy will be undermined unless we restore the three 
sinews of our influence: our economic strength, our military strength and 
the strength of our values. That will require a very different set of 
policies from those President Obama is pursuing.

The 20th century became an American Century because we were steadfast in 
defense of freedom. We made the painful sacrifices necessary to defeat 
totalitarianism in all of its guises. To defend ourselves and our allies, 
we paid the price in treasure and in soldiers who never came home.

Our challenges are different now, but if the 21st century is to be another 
American Century, we need leaders who understand that keeping the peace 
requires American strength in all of its dimensions.

