03/06/12 – Super Tuesday Victory Speech

 Tweet
 

Thank you! What a great night!

And thank you, Massachusetts! We are excited to be in the Bay State tonight 
celebrating with family and friends who have worked tirelessly on this 
campaign. And, of course, it’s an honor to have so many of the citizens I 
served as governor join our cause. Your support means everything to me, and 
I will not let you down.

Tonight, we are counting up the delegates for the convention – and counting 
down the days until November. We’re going to take your vote and our victory 
all the way to the White House!

It’s been a long road to Super Tuesday. My opponents have all worked very 
hard – and I’d like to congratulate Newt Gingrich on a good night in 
Georgia, Rick Santorum on his night, and Ron Paul for his steadfast 
commitment to our Constitution and his strong support in every state.

We started our campaign nine months ago on a New Hampshire farm not too far 
from here. It was a beautiful spring day full of hope and promise, a day 
that made us all recognize once again how lucky we are to be Americans. 
What we launched that day was not just an effort to win more votes – or 
more delegates – it was the start of an effort to restore the promise of 
America, a promise we all know has been frayed by these difficult times.

We’ve sounded our clarion call across this country, from airport tarmacs to 
factory floors, from door to door, and heart to heart. I’ve met with moms 
and dads, teachers and students, business owners and factory workers. I’ve 
listened and I’ve learned. I hope I’m a better candidate for it. And I will 
be forever grateful for this greatest of experiences.

I’ve met people like Norm Byrne, who exemplify the innovative spirit that 
built this country.

Norm didn’t get to go to college. He doesn’t have an engineering degree. 
But he does have over 100 patents to his name. He turned a small shop in 
his basement into a successful company that helped build an industry. And 
it’s entrepreneurs like Norm who are going to get the American economy back 
on track.

I’ve met parents like David McArthur, whose children have served and 
suffered for their country in war. David’s son was seriously injured in 
Afghanistan. He returned from the front lines only to face a new fight to 
get the medical care he needs – and he has surely earned. As I told David, 
I believe that to those who put everything on the line, we owe everything 
they need.

America’s veterans deserve a lot better than long lines and reduced 
benefits. And, as President, I’m going to make sure they get it.

As a candidate for President, I’ve had the privilege of meeting people like 
Norm and David.

Their stories are inspiring. But I’ve also met people who are really 
hurting in this stagnant Obama Economy – and their stories are 
heart-breaking.

Some have lost their jobs, others work two jobs just to get by. Some used 
to be middle class, but now they are struggling again, right back where 
they started. The prices for gas and food and clothing keep going up, but 
their paycheck stays the same.

President Obama keeps telling these Americans that the recovery is here. 
But, for them, the recession isn’t over.

From generation to generation, Americans have always known that the future 
would be brighter and better. Americans have always believed in a tomorrow 
full of possibility and prosperity.

That deep confidence in a better tomorrow is the basic promise of America. 
Today, that promise is being threatened by a faltering economy and a failed 
presidency.

To the millions of Americans who look around and can only see jobs they 
can’t get and bills they can’t pay, I have a message: You have not failed. 
This President has failed you.

President Obama said he would create jobs. For 36 months, unemployment has 
been above 8%.

He said he would cut the deficit in half. He’s doubled it.

Today, our debts are too high and our opportunities are too few. And we’ve 
seen enough of this President over the last three years to know that we 
don’t need another five.

This President is out of ideas. He’s running out of excuses. And, in 2012, 
he’ll be out of office.

President Obama seems to believe he is unchecked by our Constitution. He is 
unresponsive to the will of our people; he operates by command instead of 
by consensus. In a second term, he would be unrestrained by the demands of 
re-election. And if there is one thing we can’t afford, it is four years of 
a Barack Obama with no one to answer to.

These days, the President and his team keep telling us that things are 
getting better. 24 million Americans are still struggling for work, and 
they are high-fiving each other in the West Wing.

But, my friends, the truth is this: 8% unemployment is not the best America 
can do; it’s just the best this administration can do. When I am President, 
the American economy will not be lagging behind; it will be leading the 
world.

For this administration, the unemployment number is just another 
inconvenient statistic standing in the way of a second term. But those 
numbers are more than data on a spreadsheet; they are worried families and 
anxious faces. And tonight, I’d like to say to each of them: You have not 
been forgotten. We will not leave you behind. Our campaign is on the move. 
And real change is finally on the way.

Times may be tough, but our citizens still believe in the promise of 
America. And they deserve a President who believes in them.

That’s why our campaign is about more than just replacing a President. It 
is about restoring America’s promise.

We won’t settle for this President’s “new normal.” I am offering a real 
choice and a new beginning. And I have a plan that will deliver more jobs, 
less debt, and smaller government.

President Obama raised the national debt. I will cut, cap, and balance the 
budget.

He passed Obamacare. I’ll repeal Obamacare.

He lost our AAA credit rating; I’ll restore it.

He rejected the Keystone Pipeline. I’ll approve it. He has stalled domestic 
energy production. I will open up our lands for development, so we can 
finally get the energy we need at a price we can afford.

When it comes to the economy, my highest priority will be worrying about 
your job, not saving my own. I have a pro-growth tax plan that will 
jumpstart the economy.

President Obama wants to raise your taxes. I will cut them. That starts 
with an across-the-board, 20% rate cut for every American. I will repeal 
the Alternative Minimum Tax – and I will finally abolish the death tax.

He’s proposed raising taxes for job creators. I will cut taxes for job 
creators.

He wants to raise taxes on savings and investment. I will help middle class 
families save and invest tax-free.

President Obama doesn’t have a single serious proposal for saving Medicare 
or Social Security. I have a plan that saves and strengthens both – and I 
have the courage to put it on the table.

As President, I will get our economy back on track – and get our citizens 
back to work. And, unlike President Obama, I actually have the experience 
to deliver on that promise.

I spent 25 years in business. I have been the steward of an Olympics and 
the leader of this great state. I’ve cut taxes 19 times. I’ve turned a 
budget shortfall into a surplus. I know how government kills jobs – and, 
yes, how it can help create them. I stand ready to lead our Party to 
victory – and our nation to prosperity.

I have said before – and I firmly believe – that this campaign is about 
saving the soul of America. And it is driven by the unshakable optimism 
that lies within our American hearts.

We know that our future is brighter and better than these troubled times. 
We have been knocked down. We have been tested. But we don’t accept an 
America of limits. We know that America is a land of opportunity. We still 
get up each day and thank God that we’re Americans. And we know that with 
hard work and strong leadership, our greatest days are ahead.

Tonight we’ve taken one more step toward restoring the promise of America. 
Tomorrow we wake up and we start again. And the next day we do the same. 
And so it will go, day by day, step by step, door to door, heart to heart.

There will be good days and bad days, always long hours and never enough 
time. But, on November 6th, we will stand united – not only having won an 
election, but having saved a future.

It is time we believe in ourselves. It is time to Believe in America.

I’m asking you to join our cause. We need your energy and your conviction 
and your commitment.

I’m asking for you to pledge your support at MittRomney.com
 . We need your voice and your vote in this 
campaign.

I’m asking you to join in the fight for our freedom – and ensure that 
tomorrow will be better than today.

Let’s go forward together and restore the promise of America! Together, 
let’s fight for the country we love.

Thank you. And God bless America.

