05/19/12 – Reinforcing Alliance’s Military Might is Vital

 Tweet
 

Reinforcing Alliance's Military Might is Vital


By Mitt Romney
The Chicago Tribune
May 19, 2012

NATO has kept the peace in Europe for more than six decades. But today, the 
alliance is at a crossroads. It is time to speak candidly about the 
challenges facing the United States and our allies and how to rise to them.

In a post-Cold War world, territorial defense of Europe is no longer NATO's 
one overriding mission. Instead, the alliance has evolved to uphold 
security interests in distant theaters, as in Afghanistan and Libya. Yet 
through all the changes to the global landscape, two things have remained 
constant about the alliance. For it to succeed, it requires strong American 
leadership. And it also requires that member states carry their own weight.

In recent years, neither requirement has been sufficiently met.

For decades, many European nations have exchanged investments in defense 
capability for ever more generous welfare states. The fiscal crisis 
afflicting Europe is placing even greater constraints on resources 
available for defense.

We are at a point where only three of the 28 NATO member nations are 
meeting their pledge to spend a minimum 2 percent of gross domestic product 
on defense. Robert Gates, defense secretary under President George W. Bush 
and President Barack Obama, used one of his parting addresses to warn of 
the "collective military irrelevance" that would result if NATO's members 
continue to shortchange defense.

While military underinvestment is an old problem for NATO, a lack of 
American leadership on the issue is an alarming new development. Instead of 
working to strengthen NATO, the Obama administration has taken actions that 
will only undermine the alliance.

Last year, President Obama signed into law a budget scheme that threatens 
to saddle the U.S. military with nearly $1 trillion in cuts over the next 
10 years. President Obama's own defense secretary, Leon Panetta, has called 
cuts of this magnitude "devastating" to our national security. Gen. Martin 
Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has plainly said that such 
a reduction means "we would not any longer be a global power." Despite 
these warnings, the Obama administration has pledged to veto an attempt to 
replace these cuts with savings in other areas.

This is reckless. We have a military inventory composed of weapons designed 
40 to 50 years ago. The average age of our tanker aircraft is 47 years, of 
strategic bombers 34 years. Our Air Force, which had 82 fighter squadrons 
at the end of the Cold War, has been reduced to 39 today. The U.S. Navy, at 
285 ships, is at levels not seen since 1916. Should our air, naval and 
ground forces continue to age and shrink, it will place the interests of 
the U.S. and our friends and allies at risk.

With the United States on a path to a hollow military, we are hardly in a 
position to exercise leadership in persuading our allies to spend more on 
security. And in fact the Obama administration has failed to exercise such 
leadership. Quite the contrary; a multiplier effect has set in: The 
administration's irresponsible defense cuts are clearing the way for our 
partners to do even less.

An alliance not undergirded by military strength and U.S. leadership may 
soon become an alliance in name only.

At the same time that President Obama has been weakening our military, he 
has sent the message — intentionally or not — that the worth of NATO has 
diminished in America's eyes.

In 2009, the Obama administration stunned two NATO allies — Poland and the 
Czech Republic — with a surprise withdrawal from an agreement to station 
missile defense sites on their territories, an agreement they signed in the 
face of Russian threats. Two of our most valuable partners were treated 
shabbily, the cause of missile defense was set back, and the Russians 
achieved a prime security objective without having to make meaningful 
concessions in return. And President Obama recently promised Russian 
leaders even more "flexibility" on missile defense if they give him "space" 
before his "last election."

At this moment of both opportunities and perils — an Iranian regime with 
nuclear ambitions, an unpredictable North Korea, a revanchist Russia, a 
China spending furiously on its own military, to name but a few of the 
major challenges looming before us — the NATO alliance must retain the 
capacity to act.

As president, I will work closely with our partners to bolster the 
alliance. In that effort, words are not enough.

I will reverse Obama-era military cuts. I will not allow runaway 
entitlement spending to swallow the defense budget as has happened in 
Europe and as President Obama is now allowing here.

I will work with the Europeans to advance interoperability of equipment, 
and a more rational division of labor among national forces to increase 
their military potential at a moment when the continent is under severe 
financial strain. And I will exercise leadership on missile defense, cyber 
capability, energy security and sufficiently mobile forces to make sure 
that there is never any doubt that the alliance can meet its collective 
defense obligations.

We will hear many fine words hailing NATO's past successes at the summit 
this weekend. And that is only right. But as we look to the challenges 
ahead, we should not fail to heed the sober lesson that motivated NATO's 
founding: Aggression is easier to deter than defeat.

Formed in the aftermath of a terrible and costly war, NATO is a testament 
to the fact that the price of weakness is always far greater than the price 
of strength. That is a lesson I hope the leaders assembled in Chicago take 
to heart.

