03/01/12 – Obama Would Tax Economy to Death

 Tweet
 

Obama Would Tax Economy to Death


By Mitt Romney
March 1, 2012

Nearly two and a half centuries ago some great American patriots held a 
little tea party here in Boston. To protest taxation without 
representation, they boarded British ships and dumped their precious cargo 
of tea into Boston Harbor.

It’s time for another old-fashioned tax revolt.

President Barack Obama is visiting New Hampshire today. I do not know what 
he will say, but I can make one safe prediction: He is not going to be 
mentioning the fact that his administration is pushing for one of the 
largest tax increases in American history. That would not be good news.

But it’s worse than bad news. It’s bad economics. The president is calling 
for $1.4 trillion in new revenues from Americans. He’s proposing higher 
taxes on wages and investments and limiting breaks for retirement savings 
and health insurance.

This is precisely the wrong way to go. If the president were a doctor 
performing surgery on the economy, he’d be sued for malpractice.

High taxes are one of the reasons we have low economic growth. They are 
also one of the reasons that we’ve lost jobs to foreign competition. It’s 
time to make America competitive again. And I have a plan to do just that.

Instead of raising taxes as the president proposes, I will make an 
across-the-board, 20 percent reduction in marginal individual income tax 
rates. This will bring down tax rates for the numerous businesses that pay 
at individual rates and employ the majority of private-sector American 
workers. This single stroke alone will lead to significant increases in 
both hiring and wages.

I will bring down our corporate tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent and 
transition from a worldwide taxation system to a territorial one.

Right now, our corporate rate is close to the world’s highest. It’s no 
wonder companies of all sorts are choosing to locate elsewhere. And without 
a territorial system, foreign-based American firms will continue to keep 
their profits parked abroad rather than invest them here at home. With our 
high rates and our punitive incentives, we are shooting ourselves in the 
foot with a machine gun. This has to end and I will end it.

We must make it easier for middle-income Americans to save and invest. I 
will eliminate the 15 percent tax on capital gains, interest and qualified 
dividends for taxpayers with annual income below $200,000. The more all 
Americans can save and invest, the better off they will be. The more all 
Americans save and invest, the better off the entire economy will be.

I will abolish the death tax, which taxes income that has already been 
taxed once before, and which encourages elaborate schemes for transferring 
wealth. And I will also do away with the Alternative Minimum Tax, which has 
introduced so much complexity into tax code and has begun to hit the middle 
class.

As governor of Massachusetts, I cut taxes 19 times, eliminated a $3 billion 
deficit, and by the end of my term left the commonwealth with a $2 billion 
rainy-day fund and a 4.7 percent unemployment rate, a level that hasn’t 
been seen in years. I can do the same thing for our country.

We don’t need to dump tea in Boston Harbor to make our point because, 
having won the American Revolution, we are a democracy, and we can vote 
Barack Obama out of office.

