04/03/12 – Wisconsin/Maryland/DC Victory Speech

 Tweet
 

Thank you, Wisconsin! And Maryland! And Washington, DC!

We have won a great victory tonight in our campaign to restore the promise 
of America.

You won't find Americans with bigger hearts than those here in our 
heartland. But as I've travelled across this beautiful state, I've visited 
with far too many whose hearts are filled with anxiety about the future. So 
many good and decent people seem to be running harder just to stay in place 
and, for many, no matter how hard they run, every day puts them just a 
little bit further behind.

It’s that way across so much of America.

Under this President's watch, more Americans have lost their jobs than 
during any other period since the Depression. Millions have lost their 
homes, and a record number of Americans are living in poverty. And the most 
vulnerable have been hurt the most - over 30% of single moms are struggling 
in poverty. New business startups are at the lowest level in 30 years, and 
our national debt is at a record high. And when you drive home tonight and 
stop at a gas station, just take a look at the prices and ask yourself, 
"Four more years?"

And that’s why it is important to understand one astonishing fact about 
this election: President Obama thinks he’s doing a good job. No, I’m not 
kidding. He actually thinks he’s doing a great job. An historically great 
job. According to the President, only Lincoln, FDR and Lyndon Johnson have 
accomplished more. And no, he didn’t say that on Saturday Night Live.

It's enough to make you think that years of flying around on Air Force One, 
surrounded by an adoring staff of True Believers telling you what a great 
job you are doing, well, that might be enough to make you a little out of 
touch.

This campaign will deal with many complicated issues but there is a basic 
choice before us:

The President has pledged to “transform America,” and he has spent the last 
four years laying the foundation for a new Government-Centered Society.

I will spend the next four years rebuilding the foundation of our 
Opportunity Society, led by free people and free enterprises.

Our different visions for America are the product of our values and our 
life experiences.

Barack Obama once said that his work as a community organizer motivated him 
to help “communities that had been ravaged by plant closings.” His desire 
to help others could not be more admirable but it’s clear that he saw free 
enterprise as the villain and not the solution.

He never seemed to grasp the basic point that a plant closes when a 
business loses money. So today when the President attacks business and when 
his policies make it more difficult for businesses to grow and prosper, he 
is also attacking the very communities he wanted to help. That’s how it 
works in America. Or at least that’s how it works when America is working.

But under Barack Obama, America hasn’t been working. The ironic tragedy is 
that the community organizer who wanted to help those hurt by a plant 
closing became the President on whose watch more jobs have been lost than 
any time since the Great Depression.

In Barack Obama’s Government-Centered Society, the government must do more 
because the economy is doomed to do less. When you attack business and 
vilify success, you will have less business and less success. And then, of 
course, the debate becomes about how much to extend unemployment insurance 
because you have guaranteed there will be millions more unemployed.

In Barack Obama’s Government-Centered Society, tax increases become not 
only a necessity, but also a desired tool for social justice. In that world 
of shrinking means, there’s a finite amount of money, and as someone once 
famously said, you need taxes to spread the wealth around.

In Barack Obama’s Government-Centered Society, government spending will 
always increase because…there’s no reason to stop it. There’s always 
someone who is entitled to something more, and who will vote for anyone who 
will give them something more.

We know where that transformation leads. There are other nations that have 
chosen that path. It leads to chronic high unemployment, crushing debt, and 
stagnant wages. Sound familiar?

I don’t want to transform America; I want to restore the values of economic 
freedom and opportunity and limited government that have made this nation 
the leader it is.

It is opportunity that has always driven America and defined us as 
Americans!

I’m not naïve enough to believe that free enterprise is the solution to all 
of our problems – nor am I naïve enough to doubt that it is one of the 
greatest forces of good this world has ever known.

Free enterprise has done more to lift people out of poverty, to help build 
a strong middle class, to help educate our kids, and to make our lives 
better, than all of the government programs put together.

If we become one of those societies that attack success, one outcome is 
certain – there will be a lot less success.

That’s not who we are. The promise of America has always been that if you 
worked hard, and took some risks, that there was the opportunity to build a 
better life for your family and for the next generation.

This means that government must be smaller and have strict limits placed on 
its power. Obamacare violates both principles. I will repeal it.

Taxes should be as low as possible, in line with those of competing 
nations, and designed to foster innovation and growth. That’s why I will 
cut marginal tax rates across the board.

Regulations are necessary, but they must be continuously updated, 
streamlined, and modernized. Regulators should see part of their job as 
protecting economic freedom, promoting enterprise, and fostering job 
creation.

Workers should have the right to form unions, but unions should not be 
forced upon them. And unions should not have the power to take money out of 
their members’ paychecks to buy the support of politicians favored by the 
union bosses.

Out-of-touch liberals like Barack Obama say they want a strong economy, but 
they really don’t like businesses very much. But the economy is simply the 
product of all the nation’s businesses added together. So it’s like saying 
you love omelets but don’t like eggs.

To build a strong economy that provides good jobs and rising wages and that 
reduces poverty, we need to build successful businesses of every kind 
imaginable. And President Obama has been attacking successful businesses of 
every kind imaginable.

We have always been the country where dreamers build dreams and where one 
dream helps launch another. And if those dreamers are rewarded with 
prosperity, we view that as a reason others would be encouraged to dream 
big as well.

These last few years have been difficult, made worse by mistakes and 
failures of leadership.

But if the hill before us is a little steeper we have always been a nation 
of big steppers.

In this last year, I have been all over this country, from student union 
cafeterias to kitchen tables, from factory break rooms to boardrooms, and 
I’ve heard frustration and anger but rarely hopelessness. Many Americans 
have given up on this President but they haven’t ever thought about giving 
up. Not on themselves. Not on each other. And not on America.

We have a sacred duty to restore the promise of America. And we will do it. 
We will do it because we believe in America.

Tonight, I’m asking the good people of Connecticut, Delaware, New York, 
Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island to join me. Join me in the next step toward 
that destination of November 6th, when across America we can give a sigh of 
relief and know that the Promise of America has been kept. The dreamers can 
dream a little bigger, the help wanted signs can be dusted off, and we can 
start again.

And this time we’ll get it right. We’ll stop the days of apologizing for 
success at home and never again apologize for America abroad. Together 
we’ll build the greatest America we have ever known, where prosperity is 
grown and shared, not limited and divided, an America that guarantees that 
ours is the door that innovation and greatness always knocks on first.

There was a time – not so long ago – when each of us could walk a little 
taller and stand a little straighter because we had a gift that no one else 
in the world shared. We were Americans. That meant something different to 
each of us, but it meant something special to all of us. We knew it without 
question. And so did the world.

Those days are coming back. That’s our destiny. Join me. And take another 
step every day until November 6th.

We believe in America. We believe in ourselves. Our greatest days are still 
ahead. We are, after all, Americans!

God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

