02/23/12 – A Tax Reform to Restore America’s Prosperity

 Tweet
 

A Tax Reform to Restore America's Prosperity


By Mitt Romney
February 23rd, 2012

When generations of immigrants looked up and saw the Statue of Liberty for 
the first time, they surely had many questions and doubts about the life 
before them. Yet one thing they knew without a doubt—in America anything 
was possible, and their children would have a better life.

That deep confidence in a better tomorrow is the basic promise of America. 
Today that promise is threatened by a faltering economy and a lack of 
presidential leadership.

We have record-breaking unemployment and deficit spending, and a tax code 
that looks like it was devised by our worst enemy to tie us in knots. These 
three afflictions are interconnected. I have a plan to address them and 
achieve three goals: more jobs, less debt, and smaller government.

My plan is conservative in a way that stands out not only from President 
Obama's failed approach of higher taxes and runaway deficit spending, but 
also from the say-anything-to-get-elected fiscal recklessness of some of my 
Republican rivals. Offering gimmicky proposals that rely on implausible 
levels of economic growth and blow huge holes in the budget is easy. Fixing 
our very serious problems is not.

I am prepared to make the difficult decisions our nation needs. I favor 
deep cuts in federal spending, and I've previously outlined exactly where I 
would cut and how I would reform entitlements to strengthen them for future 
generations. But we can't look at spending in isolation.

I believe we must make the tax code simpler and fairer. We must reduce tax 
rates for job creators to promote economic growth. And we must still raise 
enough revenue to stop the endless borrowing that threatens American 
prosperity.

First, I will make an across-the-board, 20% reduction in marginal 
individual income tax rates. This bold stroke reduces the tax on the next 
dollar of income earned by all taxpayers. It also reduces tax rates for the 
many businesses that pay at individual rates and employ the majority of 
private-sector American workers, thus driving significant increases in 
hiring and wages.

Second, I will reduce the corporate tax rate to 25% from 35%, transition 
from a world-wide taxation system to a territorial one, and make the R&D 
tax credit permanent. These steps will unleash significant domestic 
investment, attract more foreign investment, and make the U.S. economy 
competitive with others around the globe. They will not only spur 
significant job creation, but also raise wages for American workers.

Third, I will promote savings and investment by maintaining the low 15% 
rate on capital gains, interest and qualified dividends, and eliminate the 
tax entirely for those with annual income below $200,000. These low tax 
rates will create powerful incentives for Americans to save and invest, 
while encouraging business investment and economic growth.

Fourth, I will take long overdue steps to correct failures in the tax code. 
I will abolish the death tax, whose primary effect today is to foster 
elaborate schemes for transferring wealth. I will also repeal the 
Alternative Minimum Tax, which was intended to make the code simpler and 
fairer but has accomplished precisely the opposite.

Fifth, I will bring stability to the tax code by making these changes 
permanent. People and businesses should not live in perpetual uncertainty, 
waiting to see what changes the annual partisan battles in Washington will 
make to what they owe. One recent study estimated that simply returning 
policy certainty to pre-Obama levels could create 2.5 million jobs in less 
than two years.

Stronger economic growth and reductions in spending will help to ensure 
that these tax cuts do not expand deficits. In addition, I will place some 
curbs on personal tax deductions, exemptions and credits, and I will also 
broaden the corporate tax base.

Higher-income Americans who receive the greatest benefit from rate cuts 
will see the most significant limits. Middle-income Americans will continue 
to enjoy tax benefits that favor important priorities such as home 
ownership, charitable giving, health care, and savings. The result will be 
a pro-growth tax code that still raises the necessary revenue, retains the 
existing progressivity, and ensures that middle-income Americans will see 
real tax relief.

More jobs, less debt, smaller government. That is the goal America must 
reach if we are to restore its promise. Getting there requires that we 
replace President Obama, who has gone in the opposite direction with a 
stagnant economy, trillion-dollar deficits, and a proposal for the largest 
tax increase in history. But let's not replace the president's profligacy 
with pie-in-the-sky proposals that saddle future generations of Americans 
with heavy burdens.

The plan I am proposing is far-reaching yet realistic. It will bring us a 
federal government that does what it needs to, that lives within its means, 
and that uses pro-growth tax policy to raise necessary funds and not a 
dollar more.

