03/27/12 Ð Bowing to the Kremlin

 Tweet
 

Bowing to the Kremlin

Why Obama's "hot mic" diplomacy is endangering America.

By Mitt Romney
March 27th, 2012

Sometimes it's the unguarded moments that are the most revealing of all. 
President Obama just had such a moment at the summit in South Korea. "This 
is my last election," Obama told Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, in an 
exchange that was inadvertently picked up by microphones
 
. "After my election I have more flexibility."

But flexibility to do what? The president mentioned missile defense to 
Medvedev as one area where the Kremlin should expect more flexibility. This 
is alarming.

It is not an accident that Mr. Medvedev is now busy attacking me
 
. The Russians clearly prefer to do business with the current incumbent of 
the White House.

And it is not hard to understand why. The record shows that President Obama 
has already been pliant on missile defense and other areas of nuclear 
security. Without extracting meaningful concessions from Russia, he 
abandoned our missile defense sites in Poland. He granted Russia new limits 
on our nuclear arsenal. He capitulated to Russia's demand that a United 
Nations resolution on the Iranian nuclear-weapons program exclude
 
crippling sanctions.

Moscow has rewarded these gifts with nothing but obstructionism at the 
United Nations on a whole raft of issues. It has continued to arm the 
regime of Syria's vicious dictator and blocked multilateral efforts to stop 
the ongoing carnage there. Across the board, it has been a thorn in our 
side on questions vital to America's national security. For three years, 
the sum total of President Obama's policy toward Russia has been: "We give, 
Russia gets."

Russian intransigence has elicited no push-back from the White House. 
Indeed, as the conversation in South Korea shows, President Obama appears 
determined to ingratiate himself with the Kremlin. This, unfortunately, 
seems to be the real meaning of his "reset" policy. An outstanding example 
is the personal phone call that Barack Obama made to Vladimir Putin from 
Air Force One congratulating the Russian leader on his election as Russia's 
next president.

The call followed a declaration from the State Department that "the United 
States congratulates the Russian people on the completion of the 
Presidential elections." Given that the Russian elections were widely seen 
to have been compromised by fraud and intimidation, these words made a 
mockery of America's commitment to democracy and human rights. They 
undercut all those in Russia who are risking so much to struggle for the 
universal rights that we ourselves enjoy. They are a shameful betrayal of 
our country's first principles.

President Obama's conversation with Dmitry Medvedev raises questions not 
only about his policy toward Russia, but his entire foreign policy.

Would post-election "flexibility" lead him to reach out once again to the 
Iranian regime
"without preconditions"? Would it lead him to resume pressuring Israel into 
making unilateral concessions to the Palestinians? Would it permit him to 
take an even softer line, if that is imaginable, toward the authoritarian 
regimes of the Castro brothers and Hugo Ch‡vez? Would he further shrink our 
Navy and Air Force below the already-too-low force numbers currently 
planned? Would he pour more money into United Nations bodies that have 
recognized a Palestinian state and seem to spend an inordinate amount of 
their time and energy denouncing Israel?

In a self-governing country like ours, the people have a right to know what 
kinds of decisions are being taken in their name. The American people 
deserve candor. They also deserve a foreign policy founded upon our 
enduring principles and a recognition of our exceptional place in the 
world.

That is not what they are getting now. Unfortunately, what they are getting 
is a sad replay of Jimmy Carter's bungling at a moment when the United 
States needs the backbone and courage of a Ronald Reagan. In his dealings 
with the Kremlin, as in his dealings with the rest of the world, President 
Obama has demonstrated breathtaking weakness -- and given the word 
"flexibility" a new and ominous meaning.

