04/04/12 – Newspaper Association of America Remarks

 Tweet
 

Over the last ten months, I’ve come to know a good deal about some of the 
journalists who write for your newspapers.

We’ve aired our dirty laundry together – sometimes literally as well as 
figuratively. We've bathed hour upon hour in the fine diesel aroma of a 
campaign bus. And we’ve shared more birthdays and holidays with each other 
than with our families.

One of the reporters covering our campaign is Maeve Reston of the Los 
Angeles Times. For Maeve’s birthday, I got her a cake and sang her a 
birthday song. For my birthday, she was kind enough to remind me that I’m 
now old enough to qualify for Medicare.

In just the few years since my last campaign, the changes in your industry 
are striking. Then, I looked to Drudge or FOX or CNN online to see what 
stories were developing. Hours after a speech, it was being dissected on 
the Internet. Now, it’s Twitter, and instantaneous reaction. In 2008, the 
coverage was about what I said in my speech. These days, it’s about what 
brand of jeans I am wearing and what I ate for lunch.

Most people in my position are convinced that you are biased against us. We 
identify with LBJ's famous quip that if he were to walk on water, your 
headline would read: “President Can’t Swim.”

Some people thus welcome the tumult in your industry, heralding the new 
voices and the unfiltered or supposedly unbiased sources. Frankly, in some 
of the new media, I find myself missing the presence of editors to exercise 
quality control. I miss the days of two or more sources for a story – when 
at least one source was actually named.

How your industry will change, I cannot predict. I subscribe to Yogi 
Berra's dictum: "Forecasting is very difficult, especially when it involves 
the future."

But I do know this: You will continue to find ways to provide the American 
people with reliable information that is vital to our lives and to our 
nation. And I am confident that the press will remain free. But further, I 
salute this organization and your various institutions in your effort to 
make it not only free, but also responsible, accurate, relevant, and 
integral to the functioning of our democracy.

Given the number and scale of our nation’s current challenges, the November 
election will have particular consequence. It will be a defining event. 
President Obama and I have very different visions for America, both of what 
it means to be an American today and what it will mean in the future.

The voters will expect each of us to put our respective views on the table. 
We will each make our case, buttressed by our experience. The voters will 
hear the debates, be buffeted by advertising, and be informed by your 
coverage. And hopefully after all this, they will have an accurate 
understanding of the different directions we would take and the different 
choices we would make.

Of course, for that to happen, the candidates must be candid about their 
views and plans. And, in that regard, President Obama’s comments to 
President Medvedev are deeply troubling. That incident calls his candor 
into serious question. He does not want to share his real plans before the 
election, either with the public or with the press. By flexibility, he 
means that “what the American public doesn't know won't hurt him.” He is 
intent on hiding. You and I will have to do the seeking.

Barack Obama’s exchange with the Russian President raises all kinds of 
serious questions: What exactly does President Obama intend to do 
differently once he is no longer accountable to the voters? Why does 
“flexibility” with foreign leaders require less accountability to the 
American people? And, on what other issues will he state his true position 
only after the election is over?

But instead of answering those vital questions, President Obama came here 
yesterday and railed against arguments no one is making – and criticized 
policies no one is proposing. It’s one of his favorite strategies – setting 
up straw men to distract from his record.

And while I understand why the President doesn’t want to run on his record, 
he can’t run from his record either.

As I have said many times before, the President did not cause the economic 
crisis, but he made it worse. He delayed the recovery, and made it anemic.

When he took office, millions of Americans looked to him to turn around the 
economy and lead us back to full employment. He failed these Americans.

The first three rules of any turnaround are focus, focus, and focus. But 
instead of focusing his attention on the economy, he delegated the stimulus 
to Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid.

The $787 billion stimulus included a grab bag of pet projects that had 
languished in Congress for good reason, for years. It was less a jobs plan 
and more the mother of all earmarks. The administration pledged that it 
would keep unemployment below 8%... it has been above 8% every month since.

The President's attention was elsewhere--like a government takeover of 
healthcare and apologizing for America abroad.

He handed out tens of billions of dollars to green energy companies, 
including his friends and campaign contributors at companies like Solyndra 
that are now bankrupt.

President Obama’s answer to our economic crisis was more spending, more 
debt, and more government. By the end of his term in office, he will have 
added nearly as much public debt as all the prior Presidents combined. No 
President had ever run a trillion dollar deficit. The "New Normal" the 
President would have us embrace is trillion dollar deficits and eight 
percent unemployment.

Through it all, President Obama has failed to even pass a budget. In 
February, he put forward a proposal that included the largest tax increase 
in history, and still left our national debt spiraling out of control. The 
House rejected it unanimously.

Of course, no fiscal challenge is greater than the one we face with 
entitlements. As the President himself acknowledged three years ago, this 
is not a problem that we can kick down the road any further.

I’d be willing to consider the President’s plan, but he doesn’t have one. 
That’s right: In over three years, he has failed to enact or even propose a 
serious plan to solve our entitlement crisis.

Instead, he has taken a series of steps that end Medicare as we know it.

He is the only President to ever cut $500 billion from Medicare. And, as a 
result, more than half of doctors say they will cut back on treating 
seniors.

He is destroying the Medicare Advantage program, eliminating the coverage 
that millions of seniors depend on and reducing choice by two-thirds.

To control Medicare cost, he has created an unelected, unaccountable panel 
with the power to prevent Medicare from providing certain treatments. The 
result will be fewer treatments and services available to patients in need, 
and nowhere else to turn.

A couple of months ago, we saw a fascinating exchange on Capitol Hill that 
epitomized not only this administration’s inaction on entitlements, but 
also its appalling lack of leadership. The President’s Treasury Secretary, 
Timothy Geithner, was testifying before Congress. And Congressman Paul Ryan 
– who, unlike this President, has had the courage to offer serious 
solutions to the problems we face – was pressing Geithner on the 
administration’s failure to lead on entitlement reform. Geithner's response 
was this: “We are not coming before you today to say we have a definitive 
solution to that long term problem. What we do know is we don’t like 
yours.”

Take a moment and think about that: We don’t have a solution. All we know 
is we don’t like yours. It almost makes one long for the days when the 
President simply led from behind.

And now, in the middle of the weakest economic recovery since the Great 
Depression, the President purports to have experienced a series of 
election-year conversions.

As President, he has repeatedly called for tax increases on businesses. 
Now, as candidate Obama, he decides that a lower corporate tax rate would 
be better.

As President, he’s added regulations at a staggering rate. Now, as 
candidate Obama, he says he wants to find ways to reduce them.

As President, he delayed the development of our oil and coal and natural 
gas. Now, as candidate Obama, he says he favors an energy policy that 
adopts an all-of-the-above approach.

Nancy Pelosi famously said that we would have to pass Obamacare to find out 
what was in it. President Obama has turned that advice into a campaign 
strategy: He wants us to re-elect him so we can find out what he will 
actually do.

With all the challenges the nation faces, this is not the time for 
President Obama's hide and seek campaign.

President Obama has said that he wants to transform America. I don’t want 
to transform America; I want to restore the values of economic freedom, 
opportunity, and small government that have made this nation the leader it 
is.

It is opportunity that has always driven America and defined us as 
Americans.

My grandfather was in the construction business and he never really made it 
himself. But he convinced my dad that he could accomplish anything he set 
his mind to. My dad didn’t have the chance to finish college and he 
apprenticed as a lath and plaster carpenter. Based on that excellent 
training, he went on to turn around a great car company and later became 
governor of Michigan.

My father made the most of opportunities that came before him, and by the 
time I came along – I was the fourth of four brothers and sisters – I had 
the chance to get the education my dad couldn’t.

I loved cars and was tempted to stay in Michigan and go into the car 
business but I knew I would always wonder if any success I had was due to 
my dad. So when I got out of business school, I stayed in Massachusetts and 
got a job with the best company that would hire me. More importantly, I was 
married and on the way to having five sons.

Over the next 25 years, my business career had many ups and downs, great 
successes, definite failures, but each step of the way I learned more about 
the power of our great free enterprise system.

I’m not naïve enough to believe that free enterprise is the solution to all 
of our problems – nor am I naïve enough to doubt that it is one of the 
greatest forces of good this world has ever known.

Free enterprise has done more to lift people out of poverty, to help build 
a strong middle class, to help educate our kids, to make our lives better, 
than all of the government programs put together.

If we become one of those societies that attack success, one outcome is 
certain – there will be a lot less success.

That’s not who we are. The promise of America has always been that if you 
worked hard, and took some risks, that there was the opportunity to build a 
better life for your family and for the next generation.

I’m offering a clear choice and a different path. Unlike the President, I 
have a record that I am proud to run on.

After my years in business, I used my experience to help save an Olympics 
and help turn around a state. When I became the governor of Massachusetts, 
the state budget was out of control and the legislature was 85% Democrat. 
We cut taxes 19 times and balanced the budget all four years. We erased a 
$3 billion budget shortfall and left office with a $2 billion rainy day 
fund. I cast over 800 vetoes and cut entire programs. If there was a 
program, an agency, or a department that needed cutting, we cut it. One 
commentator said that I didn’t just go after the sacred cows; I went after 
the whole herd. And I can’t wait to get my hands on Washington.

Unlike President Obama, you don’t have to wait until after the election to 
find out what I believe in – or what my plans are. I have a pro-growth 
agenda that will get our economy back on track – and get Americans back to 
work.

This administration thinks our economy is struggling because the stimulus 
was too small. The truth is we’re struggling because our government is too 
big. As President, I will get the government out of the way and unleash the 
power of American enterprise and innovation.

Seven months ago, I presented a detailed plan for jobs and economic growth, 
including 59 different proposals that would help strengthen the economy. I 
understand some people are amused that I have so many ideas. But I think 
the American people will prefer it to President Obama’s grand total of 
zero.

I will cut marginal tax rates across the board for individuals and 
corporations, and limit deductions and exclusions. I will repeal burdensome 
regulations, and prevent the bureaucracy from writing new ones. I will 
unleash our domestic energy resources so that we can finally get the energy 
we need at a price we can afford.

Instead of picking winners and losers with taxpayer dollars, I will make 
sure that every entrepreneur gets a fair shot and that every business plays 
by the same rules. I will create an environment where our businesses and 
workers can compete and win. I will welcome the best and the brightest to 
our shores, and ensure that we have labor and training policies that help 
American workers to be more competitive.

Instead of growing the federal government, I will shrink it. I will repeal 
Obamacare, and cut programs that we cannot afford. I will send to the 
states those programs they can implement with better results at lower cost.

I have already proposed a plan that will save and strengthen Medicare and 
Social Security for future generations. And, unlike President Obama, I have 
the courage to stand behind my plan and the leadership to enact it.

My plan preserves these programs for those at or near retirement and 
strengthens them for future generations – without tax increases. I will 
gradually raise the retirement age for Social Security, and reduce the rate 
of benefit growth for tomorrow’s higher income seniors. I will introduce 
market competition and consumer choice to Medicare, while also preserving 
traditional Medicare coverage as an option, so that future seniors can get 
higher quality care at lower cost.

This November, we will face a defining decision. Our choice will not be one 
of party or personality. This election will be about principle. Freedom and 
opportunity will be on the ballot.

I am offering a real choice and a new beginning. I am running for President 
because I have the experience and the vision to get us out of this mess. We 
know what Barack Obama’s vision of America is – we’ve all lived it the last 
three years. Mine is very different.

I see an America where we know the prospects for our children will be 
better than our own; where the pursuit of success unites us, not divides 
us; where the values we pass on to our children are greater than the debts 
we leave them; where poverty is defeated by opportunity, not enabled by a 
government check.

I see an America that is humble but never humbled, that leads but is never 
lead.

In this campaign, I will lead us toward that America. We wage this campaign 
as Republicans or Democrats, but we share a destiny as Americans. Together, 
we will ensure that America’s greatest days are yet ahead.

Thank you and God bless.

