 

 

Barack Obama

Senate Floor Speech on Ohio Electoral Vote Counting Procedures

delivered 6 January 2005, Washington, D.C.

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Senator Obama: Thank you very much, Mr. President; Ladies and Gentlemen of 
the Senate:

I have to say that I didn't anticipate speaking today, but the importance, 
I think, of this issue is one in which I feel it's important for me to 
address this body.

You know, during the election I had the occasion of meeting a woman who had 
supported me in my campaign. And she decided to come to shake my hand and 
take a photograph. A wonderful woman, she wasn't asking for anything, and I 
was very grateful that she took time to come by. It was a[n] unexceptional 
moment except for the fact that she was born in 1894. And her name was 
Marguerite Lewis, an African-American woman who had been born in Louisiana, 
born in the shadow of slavery, born at a time when lynchings were 
commonplace, born at a time when African-Americans and women could not 
vote.

And yet, over the course of decades she had participated in broadening our 
democracy and ensuring that, in fact, at some point, if not herself, then 
her children and her grandchildren and her great-grandchildren would be in 
a position in which they could, too, call themselves citizens of the United 
States and make certain that this Government works not just on behalf of 
the mighty and the powerful but also on behalf of people like her.

And so the fact that she voted and that her vote was counted in this 
election was of supreme importance to her and it is the memory of talking 
to her and shaking her hand that causes me to rise on this occasion.

I am absolutely convinced that the President of the United States, George 
Bush, won this election
 . I also believe that 
he got more votes in Ohio. I think, as has already been said by some of the 
speakers in this body, he is not some -- this is not an issue in which we 
are challenging the outcome of the election. And I think it's important for 
us to separate out the issue of the election outcome with the election 
process.

I was not in this body four years ago, but what I observed as a voter, as a 
citizen of Illinois four years ago, were troubling evidence of the fact 
that not every vote was being counted  
. And I think that it is unfortunate four years later that we continue to 
see circumstances in which people who believe that they have the right to 
vote -- who show up at the polls -- still continue to confront the sort of 
problems that have been documented as taking place, not just in Ohio, but 
[in] places all across the country.

I would strongly urge that this Chamber, as well as the House of 
Representatives, take it upon itself once and for all to reform this 
system. There is no reason, at a time when we have enormous battles taking 
place ideologically all across the globe, at a time when we're try to make 
certain that we encourage democracy in Iraq and Afghanistan and other 
places throughout the world, that we have the legitimacy of our elections 
challenged, rightly or wrongly, by people who are not certain as to whether 
our processes are fair and just. This is something that we can fix. We have 
experts on both sides of the aisle who know how to fix it. What we've 
lacked is the political will.

I would strongly urge that, in a circumstance in which too many voters have 
stood in long lines for hours, in which too many voters have cast votes on 
machines that jam or malfunction or suck the votes without a trace, in 
which too many voters try to register to vote only to discover that their 
names don't appear on the roles, or that partisan political interests and 
those that serve them have worked hard to throw up every barrier to 
recognize them as lawful, in which too many voters will know that there are 
different elections for different parts of the country and that these 
differences turn shamefully on differences of wealth or of race, in which 
too many voters have to contend with state officials, servants of the 
public, who put partisan or personal political interests ahead of the 
public in administering our elections -- in such circumstances, we have an 
obligation to fix the problem.

And I have to add that this is not a problem unique to this election, and 
it is not a partisan problem. Keep in mind, I come from Cook County, from 
Chicago, in which there is a long record of these kinds of problems taking 
place and disadvantaging Republicans as well as Democrats. So I would ask 
that all of us rise up and use this occasion --

Senate President: Senator's time has expired.

Senator Obama: -- to amend this problem. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio Source: C-SPAN.org 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.