 

 

Barack Obama

Senate Floor Speech on the PATRIOT Act

delivered 15 December 2005

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Thank you very much, Mr. President.

You know, four years ago, following the most devastating attack in our 
history  , this Senate passed the USA 
PATRIOT Act  in order to give 
our Nation's law enforcement the tools they needed to track down terrorists 
who plot and lurk within our own borders and all over the world; terrorists 
who, right now, are looking to exploit weaknesses in our laws and our 
security to carry out attacks that may be even deadlier than those that 
took place on September 11.

We all agree we need legislation to make it harder for suspected terrorists 
to go undetected in this country. And we all agree that we needed to make 
it harder for them to organize and strategize and get flight licenses and 
sneak across our borders. Americans everywhere wanted to do that.

Soon after the PATRIOT Act passed, a few years before I even arrived in the 
Senate, I began hearing concerns from people of every background and 
political leaning that this law, the very purpose of which was to protect 
us, was also threatening to violate some of the rights and freedoms we hold 
most dear; that it does not just provide law enforcement the powers it 
needed to keep us safe but powers it did not need to invade our privacy 
without cause or suspicion.

Now, in Washington, this issue has tended to generate into the typical 
either/or debate: Either we protect our people from terror or we protect 
our most cherished principles. I suggest this is a false choice. It asks 
too little of us and it assumes too little about America.

That is why, as it has come to time to reauthorize the USA PATRIOT Act, we 
have been working in a bipartisan way to do both, to show the American 
people we can track down terrorists without trampling on our civil 
liberties, to show the American people that the Federal Government will 
only issue warrants and execute searches because it needs to do so, not 
because it can do so.

What we have been trying to achieve under the leadership of a bipartisan 
group of Senators is some accountability in this process to get answers and 
see evidence where there is suspicion.

Several weeks ago, these efforts bore fruit. The Judiciary Committee and 
the Senate managed to pass a piece of bipartisan legislation that, while I 
cannot say is perfect, was able to address some of the most serious 
problems in the existing law. Unfortunately, that strong bipartisan 
legislation has been tossed aside in conference. Instead, we have been 
forced to consider a piece of rushed legislation that fails to address the 
concerns of Members of both parties as well as the American people.

This is legislation that puts our own Justice Department above the law. 
When national security letters are issued, they allow Federal agents to 
conduct any search on any American, no matter how extensive, how wide 
ranging, without ever going before a judge to prove the search is 
necessary. All that is needed is a signoff from a local FBI agent. That is 
it.

Once a business or a person receives notification they will be searched, 
they are prohibited from telling anyone about it and they are even 
prohibited from challenging this automatic gag order in court. Even though 
judges have already found that similar restrictions violate the first 
amendment, this conference report disregards the case law and the right to 
challenge the gag order.

If you do decide to consult an attorney for legal advice, hold on; you will 
have to tell the FBI you have done so. Think about that: You want to talk 
to a lawyer about whether your actions are going to be causing you to get 
into trouble, you have to tell the FBI that you are consulting a lawyer. 
This is unheard of. There is no such requirement in any other area of the 
law. I see no reason why it is justified here.

If someone wants to know why their own Government has decided to go on a 
fishing expedition through every personal record or private document, 
through the library books you read, the phone calls you have made, the 
e-mails you have sent, this legislation gives people no rights to appeal 
the need for such a search in a court of law. No judge will hear your plea; 
no jury will hear your case. This is plain wrong. There are Republican 
Senators as well as Democratic Senators who recognize it is plain wrong.

Giving law enforcement the tools they need to investigate suspicious 
activities is one thing and it is the right thing. But doing it without any 
real oversight seriously jeopardizes the rights of all Americans and the 
ideals America stands for.

Supporters of this conference report have argued we should hold our noses 
and support this legislation because it is not going to get any better. 
That is not a good argument. We can do better. We have time to do better. 
It does not convince me I should support this report. We owe it to the 
Nation, we owe it to those who fought for our civil liberties, we owe it to 
the future and our children to make sure we craft the kind of legislation 
that would make us proud, not legislation we would settle for because we 
are in a rush. We do not have to settle for a PATRIOT Act that sacrifices 
our liberties or our safety. We can have one that secures both.

There have been proposals on both sides of the aisle and in both Houses of 
Congress to extend the PATRIOT Act for 3 months so we can reach an 
agreement on this bill that is well thought through. I support these 
efforts and will oppose cloture on what I consider to be this unacceptable 
conference report.

I yield the floor and suggest the absence of a quorum.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: C-SPAN.org 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.