 

 

Barack Obama

Senate Floor Speech on Renewing Voting Rights Act

delivered 20 July 2006

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Thank you very much, Mr. President.

Mr. President, I rise today both humbled and honored by the opportunity to 
express my support for renewal of the expiring provisions of the Voting 
Rights Act of 1965  
.

I thank the many people inside and outside Congress who have worked so hard 
over the past year to get us here. We owe a great debt of gratitude to the 
leadership on both sides of the aisle. We owe special thanks to Chairmen 
Sensenbrenner and Specter, Ranking Members Conyers and Leahy, and 
Representative Mel Watt. Without their hard work and dedication, and the 
support of voting rights advocates across the country, I doubt this bill 
would have come before us so soon.

I thank both Chambers and both sides of the aisle, as well, for getting 
this done with the same broad support that drove the original act 40 years 
ago. At a time when Americans are frustrated with the partisan bickering 
that too often stalls our work, the refreshing display of bipartisanship we 
are seeing today reflects our collective belief in the success of the act 
and reminds us of how effective we can be when we work together.

Nobody can deny we have come a long way since 1965. Look at the 
registration numbers. Only 2 years after the passage of the original act, 
registration numbers for minority voters in some States doubled. Soon 
after, not a single State covered by the Voting Rights Act had registered 
less than half of its minority voting-age population.

Look at the influence of African-American elected officials at every single 
level of government. There are African-American Members of Congress. Since 
2001, our Nation's top diplomat has been African American. In fact, most of 
America's elected African-American officials come from States covered by 
section 5 of the Voting Rights Act -- States such as Mississippi, Alabama, 
Louisiana, and Georgia.

But to me, the most striking evidence of our progress can be found right 
across this building in my dear friend Congressman John Lewis, who was on 
the front lines of the civil rights movement, risking life and limb for 
freedom. On March 7, 1965, he led 600 peaceful protesters, demanding the 
right to vote, across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama. I have 
often thought about the people on the Edmund Pettus Bridge that day, not 
only John Lewis and Hosea Williams, who led the march, but the hundreds of 
everyday Americans who left their homes and their churches to join it -- 
Blacks and Whites, teenagers, children, teachers, bankers, shopkeepers; 
what Dr. King called a beloved community of God's children ready to stand 
for freedom.

I wonder sometimes: Where did they find that kind of courage? When you are 
facing row after row of State troopers on horseback, armed with billy clubs
 and tear gas -- when 
they are coming toward you spewing hatred and violence -- how do you simply 
stop, kneel down, and pray to the Lord for salvation?

But the most amazing thing of all is that after that day, after John Lewis 
was beaten within an inch of his life, after people's heads were gashed 
open and their eyes were burned, and they watched their children's 
innocence literally beaten out of them -- after all that, they went back 
and marched again. They marched again. They crossed the bridge. They 
awakened a nation's conscience, and not 5 months later the Voting Rights 
Act of 1965 was signed into law. It was reauthorized in 1970, in 1975, and 
in 1982.

Now, in 2006, John Lewis -- the physical scars of those marches still 
visible -- is an original cosponsor of the fourth reauthorization of the 
Voting Rights Act. He was joined last week by 389 of his House colleagues 
in voting for its passage.

There were some in the House, and there may be some in the Senate, who 
argue that the act is no longer needed, that the protections of section 5's 
"preclearance'' requirement" -- a requirement that ensures certain States 
are upholding the right to vote -- are targeting the wrong States. 
Unfortunately, the evidence refutes that notion. Of the 1,100 objections 
issued by the Department of Justice since 1965, 56 percent occurred since 
the last reauthorization in 1982. Over half have occurred since 1982. So 
despite the progress these States have made in upholding the right to vote, 
it is clear that problems still exist.

There are others who have argued we should not renew section 203's 
protection of language minorities. These arguments have been tied to 
debates over immigration and they tend to muddle a noncontroversial issue 
-- protecting the right to vote -- with one of today's most contentious 
debates. But let's remember, you cannot request language assistance if you 
are not a voter. You cannot be a voter if you are not a citizen. And while 
voters, as citizens, must be proficient in English, many are simply more 
confident that they can cast ballots printed in their native languages 
without making errors. It is not an unreasonable assumption.

A representative of the Southwestern Voter Registration Project
 is quoted as saying: Citizens who prefer Spanish 
registration cards do so because they feel more connected to the process; 
they also feel they trust the process more when they understand it. These 
sentiments -- connection to and trust in our democratic process -- are 
exactly what we want from our voting rights legislation.

Our challenges, of course, do not end at reauthorizing the Voting Rights 
Act. We have to prevent the problems we have seen in recent elections from 
happening again. We have seen political operatives purge voters from 
registration rolls for no legitimate reason, prevent eligible ex-felons 
from casting ballots, distribute polling equipment unevenly and deceive 
voters about the time, location, and rules of elections. Unfortunately, 
these efforts have been directed primarily at minority voters, the 
disabled, low-income individuals, and other historically disenfranchised 
groups.

The Help America Vote Act
 , or HAVA, was a big 
step in the right direction. But we have to do more. We need to fully fund 
HAVA if we are going to move forward in the next stage of securing the 
right to vote for every citizen. We need to enforce critical requirements 
such as statewide registration databases. We need to make sure polling 
equipment is distributed equitably and equipment actually works. We need to 
work on getting more people to the polls on election day.

We need to make sure that minority voters are not the subject of some 
deplorable intimidation tactics when they do go to the polls. In 2004, 
Native American voters in South Dakota were confronted by men posing as law 
enforcement. These hired intimidators joked about jail time for ballot 
missteps and followed voters to their cars to record their license plates.

In Lake County, OH, some voters received a memo on bogus board of election 
letterhead, informing voters who registered through Democratic and NAACP 
drives that they could not vote.

In Wisconsin, a flier purporting to be from the "Milwaukee Black Voters 
League" was circulated in predominantly African-American neighborhoods with 
the following message: If you've already voted in any election this year, 
you can't vote in the presidential election. If you violate any of these 
laws, you can get ten years in prison and your children will get taken away 
from you.

Now, think about that. We have a lot more work to do. This occasion is a 
cause for celebration. But it is also an opportunity to renew our 
commitment to voting rights. As Congressman Lewis said last week: "It's 
clear that we have come a great distance, but we still have a great 
distance to go." The memory of Selma still lives on in the spirit of the 
Voting Rights Act. Since that day, the Voting Rights Act has been a 
critical tool in ensuring that all Americans not only have the right to 
vote but have the right to have their vote counted.

Those of us concerned about protecting those rights cannot afford to rest 
on our laurels upon reauthorization of this bill. We need to take advantage 
of this rare, united front and continue to fight to ensure unimpeded access 
to the polls for all Americans. In other words, we need to take the spirit 
that existed on that bridge, and we have to spread it across this country.

Two weeks after the first march was turned back, Dr. King spoke, and he 
told a gathering of organizers and activists and community members that 
they should not despair because the arc of the moral universe is long, but 
it bends toward justice. The arc of the moral universe is long, but it 
bends toward justice. That is because of the work that each of us does that 
it bends toward justice. It is because of people such as John Lewis and 
Fannie Lou Hamer  and 
Coretta Scott King  and 
Rosa Parks  -- all the giants upon 
whose shoulders we stand -- that we are beneficiaries of that arc bending 
toward justice.

That is why I stand here today. I would not be in the Senate had it not 
been for the efforts and courage of so many parents and grandparents and 
ordinary people who were willing to reach up and bend that arc in the 
direction of justice. I hope we continue to see that spirit live on not 
just during this debate but throughout all our work here in the Senate.

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Also in this database: Lyndon Baines Johnson: Historic Joint Session of 
Congress Speech on Voting Rights 

Also in this database: Fannie Lou Hamer - Testimony Before the Credential 
Committee 

Text & Audio Source: C-SPAN.org 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.