 

 

Barack Obama

Senate Floor Speech Honoring the Life of Coretta Scott King

delivered 31 January 2006, Washington, D.C

Audio mp3 of Address



Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, we mourn
 the passing of Coretta Scott 
King  .

And when I think about Coretta Scott King, I think about the little girl 
who walked five miles to school on those rural Alabama roads and felt the 
heat of racism each day she passed the door of the Whites-only school, so 
much closer to home. It didn't matter, because she studied and succeeded 
and excelled beyond most of her classmates, Black and White. She earned a 
college degree, and an acceptance to a prestigious graduate school up 
North.

And one day she met a young preacher from Atlanta, and she fell in love 
with him. And he told her his dreams -- and she believed in those dreams. 
And she decided that she would help to make them real -- not just as a wife 
or as a friend, but as a partner in freedom's cause.

Over the next years, Coretta Scott King did that in so many ways we can't 
even imagine. She raised a family, she marched through the streets, she 
inspired through song, she led through speech -- even dodged the countless 
attempts on her family's life.

And one of -- when one of those attempts finally took her love from this 
world, she made the selfless decision to carry on. With no time to even cry 
or mourn, to wallow in anger or vengeance, Coretta Scott King took to the 
streets just four days after the assassination and led 50,000 through the 
streets of Memphis in a march for the kind of justice that her husband had 
given his life for. She spent the rest of here marching for that same 
justice -- leading the King Center  for 
Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta, and spreading her family's message of 
hope to every corner of this world.

You know, I had the great honor of -- of knowing Mrs. King, and the 
occasion to visit with her in Atlanta last year. She was an extraordinarily 
gracious woman. We sat and chatted in her living room. We -- She showed me 
an album of photographs of her and Dr. King and the children. And then she 
told me what her husband had said to her once, at a time when she was 
feeling burdened, understandably, by all the stress and strain that had 
been placed on the family as a consequence of his role in the Civil Rights 
Movement. She said her husband suggested that:

    When you are willing to make sacrifices for a great cause, you will
    never be alone because you will have divine companionship and the
    support of good people.

That was her husband's advice to her -- that when you are willing to make 
sacrifices for a great cause, you will never be alone.

Coretta Scott King died in her sleep last night. She certainly was not 
alone. She was joined by the companionship and support of a loving family 
and a grateful Nation -- inspired by her cause, dedicated to her work, and 
mournful of her passing.

My thoughts, condolences today are with her children.

And I ask that she and her husband now rest together in eternal peace.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Also in this database: Maya Angelou - Speech at the Memorial Service for 
Coretta Scott King 

Also in this database: Attallah Shabazz - Speech at the Memorial Service 
for Coretta Scott King 

Audio Source: C-SPAN.org 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.