 

 

 

Barack Obama

Announces Presidential Exploratory Committee

delivered 16 January 2007

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

As many of you know, over the last few months I've been thinking hard about 
my plans for 2008. Running for the presidency is a profound decision -- a 
decision no one should make on the basis of media hype or personal ambition 
alone -- and so before I committed myself and my family to this race, I 
wanted to be sure that this was right for us and, more importantly, right 
for the country.

I certainly didn't expect to find myself in this position a year ago. But 
as I've spoken to many of you in my travels across the states these past 
months, as I've read your emails and read your letters, I've been struck by 
how hungry we all are for a different kind of politics. So I've spent some 
time thinking about how I could best advance the cause of change and 
progress that we so desperately need.

The decisions that have been made in Washington these past six years, and 
the problems that have been ignored, have put our country in a precarious 
place. Our economy is changing rapidly, and that means profound changes for 
working people. Many of you have shared with me your stories about 
skyrocketing health care bills, the pensions you've lost and your struggles 
to pay for college for your kids. Our continued dependence on oil has put 
our security and our very planet at risk. And we're still mired in a tragic 
and costly war that should have never been waged.

But challenging as they are, it's not the magnitude of our problems that 
concerns me the most. It's the smallness of our politics. America's faced 
big problems before. But today, our leaders in Washington seem incapable of 
working together in a practical, common sense way. Politics has become so 
bitter and partisan, so gummed up by money and influence, that we can't 
tackle the big problems that demand solutions. And that's what we have to 
change first. We have to change our politics, and come together around our 
common interests and concerns as Americans.

This won't happen by itself. A change in our politics can only come from 
you -- from people across our country who believe there's a better way and 
are willing to work for it. Years ago, as a community organizer in Chicago, 
I learned that meaningful change always begins at the grassroots, and that 
engaged citizens working together can accomplish extraordinary things. So 
even in the midst of the enormous challenges we face today, I have great 
faith and hope about the future -- because I believe in you.

And that's why I wanted to tell you first that I'll be filing papers today 
to create a presidential exploratory committee. For the next several weeks, 
I'm going to talk with people from around the country, listening and 
learning more about the challenges we face as a nation, the opportunities 
that lie before us, and the role that a presidential campaign might play in 
bringing our country together. And on February 10th, at the end of these 
discussions and in my home state of Illinois, I'll share my plans with my 
friends, neighbors, and fellow Americans.

In the meantime, I want to thank all of you for your time, your 
suggestions, your encouragement, and your prayers. And I look forward to 
continuing our conversation in the weeks and months to come.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Uncertain.

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-2011. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.