 

 

Barack Obama

Senate Floor Speech in Favor of Iraq Federalism Amendment

delivered 13 March 2007

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Mr. President, I rise, first, to offer strong words of support for the 
statement that was just offered by the distinguished Senator from 
Massachusetts. I, as well, rise today to speak in support of the Iraq 
resolution that the Senate will consider tomorrow.

The news from Iraq is very bad. Last week, a suicide bomber stood outside a 
bookstore and killed 20 people. Other attacks killed 118 Shia pilgrims. On 
Sunday, a car bomb went off in central Baghdad, and more than 30 people 
died. The road from the airport into Baghdad is littered with smoldering 
debris, craters from improvised explosive devices, and the memories of our 
sons and daughters.

The civil war in Iraq rages on. The insurgents have started to change their 
tactics. They hide in buildings and along the streets and wait for our 
helicopters. They have shot down at least 8 U.S. helicopters in the last 
month. More of our soldiers are dying or coming home with their bodies 
broken and their nerves shattered to a VA system completely unprepared for 
what they need to rebuild their lives.

It is not enough for the President to tell us victory in this war is simply 
a matter of American resolve. The American people have been extraordinarily 
resolved. They have seen their sons and daughters killed or wounded in the 
streets of Fallujah. They have spent hundreds of billions of dollars on 
this effort -- money they know could have been devoted to strengthening our 
homeland security and our competitive standing as a nation. The failure has 
not been a failure of resolve. That is not what has led us into chaos. It 
has been a failure of strategy, and it is time that the strategy change. 
There is no military solution to the civil war that rages on in Iraq, and 
it is time for us to redeploy so that a political solution becomes 
possible.

The news from Iraq is very bad, and it has been that way for at least 4 
years. We all wish the land the President and the Vice President speak of 
exists. We wish there were an Iraq where the insurgency was in its last 
throes, where the people work with security, where children play outside, 
where a vibrant new democracy lights up the nighttime sky. We wish for 
those things, but there is no alternative reality to what we see and read 
about in the news, to what we have experienced these long 4 years.

I repeat, there is no military solution to this war. At this point, no 
amount of soldiers can solve the grievances at the heart of someone else's 
civil war. The Iraqi people -- Shia, Sunni, and Kurd--must come to the 
table and reach a political settlement themselves. If they want peace, they 
must do the hard work necessary to achieve it.

Our failed strategy in Iraq has strengthened Iran's strategic position, 
reduced U.S. credibility and influence around the world, and placed Israel 
and other nations in the region that are friendly to the United States in 
greater peril. These are not signs of a well-laid plan. It is time for a 
profound change.

This is what we are trying to do here today. We are saying it is time to 
start making plans to redeploy our troops so they can focus on the wider 
struggle against terrorism, win the war in Afghanistan, strengthen our 
position in the Middle East, and pressure the Iraqis to reach a political 
settlement. Even if this effort falls short, we will continue to try to 
accomplish what the American people asked for last November.

I am glad to see, though, that this new effort is gaining consensus. I 
commend Senator Reid for his efforts. He took the time to listen to so many 
of us from both Chambers of Congress to help develop this plan.

The decision in particular to again begin a phased redeployment, with the 
goal of redeploying all our combat forces by March 30, 2008, is the right 
step. It is a measure the Iraq Study Group spoke of, an idea I borrowed 
from them, an idea that, in a bill I introduced, now has more than 60 
cosponsors from the House and Senate and from both sides of the aisle. They 
have supported this plan since I announced a similar plan in January.

The decision to allow some U.S. forces to remain in Iraq with a clear 
mission to protect U.S. and coalition personnel, conduct counterterrorism 
operations, and to train and equip Iraqi forces is a smart decision. 
President al-Maliki spoke at a conference and warned that the violence in 
Iraq could spread throughout the region if it goes unchecked. By 
maintaining a strong presence in Iraq and the Middle East, as both my bill 
and the leadership bill does, we can ensure that the chaos does not spread.

I should also add that the decision to begin this phased redeployment 
within 120 days is a practical one. Our military options have been 
exhausted. It is time to seek a political solution to this war, and with 
this decision we send a clear signal to the parties involved that they need 
to arrive at an accommodation.

While I strongly believe this war never should have been authorized, I 
believe we must be as careful in ending the war as we were careless getting 
in. While I prefer my approach as reflected in my bill, I believe this 
resolution does begin to point U.S. policy and Iraq in the right direction. 
An end to the war and achieving a political solution to Iraq's civil war 
will not happen unless we demand it. Peace with stability does not just 
happen because we wish for it.

It comes when we never give in and never give up and never tire of working 
toward a life on Earth worthy of our human dignity. The decisions that have 
been made have led us to this crossroad, in a moment of great peril.

We have a choice. We can continue down the road that has weakened our 
credibility and damaged our strategic interests in the region or we can 
turn toward the future. The road will not be smooth. I have to say there 
will be risks with any approach, but this approach is our last best hope to 
end this war so we can begin to bring our troops home and begin the hard 
work of securing our country and our world from the threats we face.

The President has said he will continue down the road toward more troops 
and more of the same failed policies. The President sought and won 
authorization from Congress to wage this war from the start. But he is now 
dismissing and ignoring the will of the American people who are tired of 
years of watching the human and financial tolls mount.

The news from Iraq is very bad, but it can change if we in this Chamber say 
"enough." Let this day be the day we begin the painful and difficult work 
of moving from the crossroad. Let this day be the day we begin pulling 
toward the future with a responsible conclusion to this painful chapter in 
our Nation's history. Let this be the day when we finally send a message 
that is so clear and so emphatic that it cannot be ignored.

I yield the floor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text and Audio Source: C-SPAN.org 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.