 

 

Barack Obama

Senate Floor Speech on the Iraq War After 4 Years

delivered 21 March 2007, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you very much, Mr. President.

Mr. President, on Thursdays Senator Durbin and I hold a constituent coffee 
so we can hear from the folks back home. A young man came a few months ago 
who was about 25, 26 years old. He had been in Iraq for a year -- The first 
-- He had been back from Iraq for a year. The first six months of that year 
had been spent in a coma. An explosion had shattered his face, blinded him 
in both eyes, has left him without the use of one arm.

He talked to us about how he was going through rehab. He introduced us to 
his family. He has a wife and two young daughters like I do, and his wife 
talked for a bit about the adjustments they were making at home since dad 
got hurt. And I found myself looking at not just him, but his wife, who 
loves him so much. And I thought about how their lives were forever changed 
because of the decision that was carried out four years ago.

The sacrifices of war are immeasurable. I first made this point in the fall 
of 2002, at the end of the speech that I gave opposing the invasion of Iraq
 . I said then 
that I certainly do not oppose all wars. Rather, I oppose dumb wars, rash 
wars, wars that are based on passion as opposed to wars based on a sober 
assessment of our national security interests, because there's no decision 
more profound than the one we make to send our brave men and women into 
harm’s way. I’ve thought about these words from time to time since that 
speech, but never so much as the day I saw that young man and his wife, and 
understood the degree to which their lives had been turn upside down.

The sacrifices of war are immeasurable. Too many have returned from Iraq 
with that soldier’s story -- with broken bodies and shattered nerves and 
wounds that even the best care may not heal. Too many of our best have come 
home shrouded in the flag they loved. Too many moms and dads and husbands 
and wives have answered that knock on the door that’s hardest for any loved 
one to hear. And the rest of us have seen too many promises of swift 
victories and dying insurgencies and budding democracy giving way to the 
reality of a brutal civil war that goes on and on and on to this day.

The sacrifices of war, Mr. President, are immeasurable. It was not 
impossible to see back then that we might arrive at the place we’re at 
today. I said then that a war based not on reason but on passion, not on 
principle but on politics would lead to a U.S. occupation of undetermined 
length, at undetermined cost, with undetermined consequences. I believed 
that an invasion of Iraq without a clear rationale or strong international 
support would only strengthen the recruitment arm of al-Qaeda and erode the 
good standing and moral authority that took our country generations to 
build. There were other experts and leaders and everyday Americans who 
believed this too.

I wish I had been wrong. I wish we weren’t here talking about this at the 
beginning of the war’s fifth year -- because the consequences of this war 
have been profound. And the sacrifices have been immeasurable.

Mr. President, those who would have us continue this war in perpetuity like 
to say that this is a matter of resolve on behalf of the American people. 
But the American people have been extraordinarily resolved. They've seen 
their sons and daughters killed and wounded on the streets of Fallujah. 
They've spent hundreds of billions of dollars on this effort -- money that 
could have been devoted to strengthening our homeland and our competitive 
standing as a nation.

It is not a failure of resolve that has led us into this chaos but a failed 
strategy -- a strategy that has only strengthened Iran’s strategic 
position, increased threats posed by terrorist organizations, reduced U.S. 
credibility and influence around the world, and placed Israel and other 
nations [friendly] to the United States in the region in greater peril. 
Iraq has not been a failure of resolve; it has been a failure of strategy 
-- and that strategy must change. It is time to bring a responsible end to 
U.S. involvement in this conflict is now.

It's become apparent, Mr. President, that there's no military solution to 
this war. No amount of U.S. soldiers -- not 10,000 more, not 20,000 more, 
not almost 30,000 more than we know -- that we know we are sending -- can 
solve the grievances that lay at the heart of someone else’s civil war. Our 
troops cannot serve as their diplomats, and we can no longer referee their 
civil war. We must begin a phased withdrawal of our forces starting May 
1st, with the goal of removing all combat forces by March 30th, 2008.

We also must make sure that we’re not as careless getting out of this war 
as we were getting in, and that’s why this withdrawal should be gradual, 
and maintain some U.S. troops in the region to prevent a wider war in the 
region, while they can also work on going after Al Qaeda and other 
terrorists. But this phased withdrawal, Mr. President, must begin soon. 
Letting the Iraqis know that we will not be there forever is our last, best 
hope to pressure the Iraqis to take ownership of their country and bring an 
end to their conflict. It is time for our troops to start coming home.

History will not judge, Mr. President, the architects of this war kindly. 
But the books have yet to be written on our effort to right the wrongs we 
see in Iraq. The story has yet to be told about how we turned from this 
moment, found our way out of the desert, and took to heart the lessons of 
war that too many refused to heed back then; for it is of little use or 
comfort to recall past advice and warnings if we do not allow them to guide 
us in the challenges that lie ahead. Mr. President, threats loom large in 
an age where terrorist networks thrive, and there will certainly be times 
when we have to call on our brave servicemen and women to risk their lives 
again.

But before we make that most profound of all decisions, before we send our 
best off to battle, we must remember what led us to this day and learn from 
the principles that follow.

We must remember that ideology is not a foreign policy. We must not embark 
on a war based on untested theories, political agendas, or wishful thinking 
that has basis -- that has little basis in fact or reality. We must focus 
our efforts on the threats we know exist, and we must evaluate those 
threats with sound intelligence that is never manipulated for political 
reasons.

Mr. President, we must remember that the cost of going it alone is immense. 
It is a choice we sometimes have to make, but one [that] must be made 
rarely and always reluctantly. That's because America’s standing in the 
world is a precious resource not easily rebuilt. We value the cooperation 
and goodwill of other nations not because it makes us feel good, but 
because it makes all the world safer; because the only way to battle 21st 
century threats that race across the borders -- threats like terror and 
disease and nuclear proliferation -- is to enlist the resources and support 
of all nations. To win our wider struggle, we must let people across this 
planet know that there is another, more hopeful alternative to the hateful 
ideologies the terrorists espouse -- and renewed -- and a renewed America 
will reflect and champion that vision.

Mr. President, we must remember that planning for peace is just as critical 
as planning for war. Iraq was not just a failure of conception but a 
failure of execution, and so when a conflict does arise that requires our 
involvement, we must understand that country’s history, its politics, its 
ethnic and religious divisions before our troops ever set foot on its soil.

We must understand that setting up ballot boxes does not a democracy make 
-- that real freedom and real stability come from doing the hard work of 
helping to build a strong police force, and a legitimate government, and 
ensuring that people have food, and water, and electricity, and basic 
services. And we must be honest about how much of that we can do ourselves 
and how much must come from the people themselves.

Finally, Mr. President, we must remember that when we send our servicemen 
and women to war, we make sure we give them the training they need, and the 
equipment that will keep them safe, and a mission that they can accomplish. 
We must respect our commanders’ advice not just when its politically 
convenient, but even when it’s not what we want to hear. And when our 
troops come home, it is our most solemn responsibility to make sure they 
come home to the services, and the benefits, and the care they deserve.

As we stand at the beginning of the fifth year of this war, Mr. President, 
let us remember -- let us remember that young man from Illinois, and his 
wife, and his daughters, and the thousands upon thousands of families who 
are living the very real consequences and immeasurable sacrifices that have 
come from our decision to invade Iraq. We are so blessed in this country to 
have so many men and women like this -- Americans willing to put on that 
uniform, and say the hard goodbyes, and risk their lives in a far off land 
because they know that such consequences and sacrifices are sometimes 
necessary to defend our country and achieve a lasting peace.

That is why we have no greater responsibility than to ensure the decision 
to place them in harm’s way is the right one. And that is why we must learn 
the lessons of Iraq. It is what we owe our soldiers. It is what we owe 
their families. And it is what we owe our country -- now, and all the days 
and months to come.

Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio Source: C-SPAN.org 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.