 

 

Barack Obama

Selma Voting Rights March Commemoration Speech

delivered 4 March 2007, Brown Chapel, Selma, Alabama

Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[Introduction]

Here today, I must begin because at the Unity breakfast this morning I was 
saving for last and the list was so long I left him out after that 
introduction. So I'm going to start by saying how much I appreciate the 
friendship and the support and the outstanding work that he does each and 
every day, not just in Capitol Hill but also back here in the district. 
Please give a warm round of applause for your Congressman Artur Davis
 .

It is a great honor to be here. Reverend Jackson, thank you so much. To the 
family of Brown A.M.E, to the good Bishop Kirkland, thank you for your 
wonderful message and your leadership.

I want to acknowledge one of the great heroes of American history and 
American life, somebody who captures the essence of decency and courage, 
somebody who I have admired all my life and were it not for him, I'm not 
sure I'd be here today, Congressman John Lewis.

I'm thankful to him. To all the distinguished guests and clergy, I'm not 
sure I'm going to thank Reverend Lowery because he stole the show. I was 
mentioning earlier, I know we've got C.T. Vivian in the audience, and when 
you have to speak in front of somebody who Martin Luther King said was the 
greatest preacher he ever heard, then you've got some problems.

And I'm a little nervous about following so many great preachers. But I'm 
hoping that the spirit moves me and to all my colleagues who have given me 
such a warm welcome, thank you very much for allowing me to speak to you 
here today.

You know, several weeks ago, after I had announced that I was running for 
the Presidency of the United States, I stood in front of the Old State 
Capitol in Springfield, Illinois; where Abraham Lincoln delivered his 
speech declaring, drawing in scripture, that a house divided against itself 
could not stand.

And I stood and I announced that I was running for the presidency. And 
there were a lot of commentators, as they are prone to do, who questioned 
the audacity of a young man like myself, haven't been in Washington too 
long.

And I acknowledge that there is a certain presumptuousness about this.

But I got a letter from a friend of some of yours named Reverend Otis Moss 
Jr. in Cleveland, and his son, Otis Moss III is the Pastor at my church and 
I must send greetings from Dr. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. but I got a letter 
giving me encouragement and saying how proud he was that I had announced 
and encouraging me to stay true to my ideals and my values and not to be 
fearful.

And he said, if there's some folks out there who are questioning whether or 
not you should run, just tell them to look at the story of Joshua because 
you're part of the Joshua generation.

So I just want to talk a little about Moses and Aaron and Joshua, because 
we are in the presence today of a lot of Moseses. We're in the presence 
today of giants whose shoulders we stand on, people who battled, not just 
on behalf of African Americans but on behalf of all of America; that 
battled for America's soul, that shed blood , that endured taunts and 
formant and in some cases gave -- torment and in some cases gave the full 
measure of their devotion.

Like Moses, they challenged Pharaoh, the princes, powers who said that some 
are atop and others are at the bottom, and that's how it's always going to 
be.

There were people like Anna Cooper and Marie Foster and Jimmy Lee Jackson 
and Maurice Olette, C.T. Vivian, Reverend Lowery, John Lewis, who said we 
can imagine something different and we know there is something out there 
for us, too.

Thank God, He's made us in His image and we reject the notion that we will 
for the rest of our lives be confined to a station of inferiority, that we 
can't aspire to the highest of heights, that our talents can't be expressed 
to their fullest. And so because of what they endured, because of what they 
marched; they led a people out of bondage.

They took them across the sea that folks thought could not be parted. They 
wandered through a desert but always knowing that God was with them and 
that, if they maintained that trust in God, that they would be all right. 
And it's because they marched that the next generation hasn't been bloodied 
so much.

It's because they marched that we elected councilmen, congressmen. It is 
because they marched that we have Artur Davis and Keith Ellison. It is 
because they marched that I got the kind of education I got, a law degree, 
a seat in the Illinois senate and ultimately in the United States senate.

It is because they marched that I stand before you here today. I was 
mentioning at the Unity Breakfast this morning, my -- at the Unity 
Breakfast this morning that my debt is even greater than that because not 
only is my career the result of the work of the men and women who we honor 
here today. My very existence might not have been possible had it not been 
for some of the folks here today. I mentioned at the Unity Breakfast that a 
lot of people been asking, well, you know, your father was from Africa, 
your mother, she's a white woman from Kansas. I'm not sure that you have 
the same experience.

And I tried to explain, you don't understand. You see, my Grandfather was a 
cook to the British in Kenya. Grew up in a small village and all his life, 
that's all he was -- a cook and a house boy. And that's what they called 
him, even when he was 60 years old. They called him a house boy. They 
wouldn't call him by his last name.

Sound familiar?

He had to carry a passbook around because Africans in their own land, in 
their own country, at that time, because it was a British colony, could not 
move about freely. They could only go where they were told to go. They 
could only work where they were told to work.

Yet something happened back here in Selma, Alabama. Something happened in 
Birmingham that sent out what Bobby Kennedy called, "Ripples of hope all 
around the world." Something happened when a bunch of women decided they 
were going to walk instead of ride the bus after a long day of doing 
somebody else's laundry, looking after somebody else's children. When men 
who had PhD's decided that's enough and we're going to stand up for our 
dignity.

That sent a shout across oceans so that my grandfather began to imagine 
something different for his son. His son, who grew up herding goats in a 
small village in Africa could suddenly set his sights a little higher and 
believe that maybe a black man in this world had a chance.

What happened in Selma, Alabama and Birmingham also stirred the conscience 
of the nation. It worried folks in the White House who said, "You know, 
we're battling Communism. How are we going to win hearts and minds all 
across the world? If right here in our own country, John, we're not 
observing the ideals set fort in our Constitution, we might be accused of 
being hypocrites." So the Kennedy's decided we're going to do an air lift. 
We're going to go to Africa and start bringing young Africans over to this 
country and give them scholarships to study so they can learn what a 
wonderful country America is.

This young man named Barack Obama got one of those tickets and came over to 
this country. He met this woman whose great great-great-great-grandfather 
had owned slaves; but she had a good idea there was some craziness going on 
because they looked at each other and they decided that we know that the 
world as it has been it might not be possible for us to get together and 
have a child. There was something stirring across the country because of 
what happened in Selma, Alabama, because some folks are willing to march 
across a bridge. So they got together and Barack Obama Jr. was born. So 
don't tell me I don't have a claim on Selma, Alabama. Don't tell me I'm not 
coming home to Selma, Alabama.

I'm here because somebody marched. I'm here because you all sacrificed for 
me. I stand on the shoulders of giants. I thank the Moses generation; but 
we've got to remember, now, that Joshua still had a job to do. As great as 
Moses was, despite all that he did, leading a people out of bondage, he 
didn't cross over the river to see the Promised Land. God told him your job 
is done. You'll see it. You'll be at the mountain top and you can see what 
I've promised. What I've promised to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. You will 
see that I've fulfilled that promise but you won't go there.

We're going to leave it to the Joshua generation to make sure it happens. 
There are still battles that need to be fought; some rivers that need to be 
crossed. Like Moses, the task was passed on to those who might not have 
been as deserving, might not have been as courageous, find themselves in 
front of the risks that their parents and grandparents and great 
grandparents had taken. That doesn't mean that they don't still have a 
burden to shoulder, that they don't have some responsibilities. The 
previous generation, the Moses generation, pointed the way. They took us 
90% of the way there. We still got that 10% in order to cross over to the 
other side. So the question, I guess, that I have today is what's called of 
us in this Joshua generation? What do we do in order to fulfill that 
legacy; to fulfill the obligations and the debt that we owe to those who 
allowed us to be here today?

Now, I don't think we could ever fully repay that debt. I think that we're 
always going to be looking back, but there are at least a few suggestions 
that I would have in terms of how we might fulfill that enormous legacy. 
The first is to recognize our history. John Lewis talked about why we're 
here today. But I worry sometimes -- we've got black history month, we come 
down and march every year, once a year. We occasionally celebrate the 
various events of the Civil Rights Movement, we celebrate Dr. King's 
birthday, but it strikes me that understanding our history and knowing what 
it means, is an everyday activity.

Moses told the Joshua generation; don't forget where you came from. I worry 
sometimes, that the Joshua generation in its success forgets where it came 
from. Thinks it doesn't have to make as many sacrifices. Thinks that the 
very height of ambition is to make as much money as you can, to drive the 
biggest car and have the biggest house and wear a Rolex watch and get your 
own private jet, get some of that Oprah money. And I think that's a good 
thing. There's nothing wrong with making money, but if you know your 
history, then you know that there is a certain poverty of ambition involved 
in simply striving just for money. Materialism alone will not fulfill the 
possibilities of your existence. You have to fill that with something else. 
You have to fill it with the golden rule. You've got to fill it with 
thinking about others. And if we know our history, then we will understand 
that that is the highest mark of service.

Second thing that the Joshua generation needs to understand is that the 
principles of equality that were set fort and were battled for have to be 
fought each and every day. It is not a one-time thing. I was remarking at 
the unity breakfast on the fact that the single most significant concern 
that this justice department under this administration has had with respect 
to discrimination has to do with affirmative action. That they have 
basically spent all their time worrying about colleges and universities 
around the country that are given a little break to young African Americans 
and Hispanics to make sure that they can go to college, too.

I had a school in southern Illinois that set up a program for PhD's in math 
and science for African Americans. And the reason they had set it up is 
because we only had less than 1% of the PhD's in science and math go to 
African Americans. At a time when we are competing in a global economy, 
when we're not competing just against folks in North Carolina or Florida or 
California, we're competing against folks in China and India and we need 
math and science majors, this university thought this might be a nice thing 
to do. And the justice department wrote them a letter saying we are going 
to threaten to sue you for reverse discrimination unless you cease this 
program.

And it reminds us that we still got a lot of work to do, and that the basic 
enforcement of anti-discrimination laws, the injustice that still exists 
within our criminal justice system, the disparity in terms of how people 
are treated in this country continues. It has gotten better. And we should 
never deny that it's gotten better. But we shouldn't forget that better is 
not good enough. That until we have absolute equality in this country in 
terms of people being treated on the basis of their color or their gender, 
that that is something that we've got to continue to work on and the Joshua 
generation has a significant task in making that happen.

Third thing -- we've got to recognize that we fought for civil rights, but 
we've still got a lot of economic rights that have to be dealt with. We've 
got 46 million people uninsured in this country despite spending more money 
on health care than any nation on earth. It makes no sense. As a 
consequence, we've got what's known as a health care disparity in this 
nation because many of the uninsured are African American or Latino. Life 
expectancy is lower. Almost every disease is higher within minority 
communities. The health care gap.

Blacks are less likely in their schools to have adequate funding. We have 
less-qualified teachers in those schools. We have fewer textbooks in those 
schools. We got in some schools rats outnumbering computers. That's called 
the achievement gap. You've got a health care gap and you've got an 
achievement gap. You've got Katrina still undone. I went down to New 
Orleans three weeks ago. It still looks bombed out. Still not rebuilt. When 
9/11 happened, the federal government had a special program of grants to 
help rebuild. They waived any requirement that Manhattan would have to pay 
10% of the cost of rebuilding. When Hurricane Andrew happened in Florida, 
10% requirement, they waived it because they understood that some disasters 
are so devastating that we can't expect a community to rebuild. New Orleans 
-- the largest national catastrophe in our history, the federal government 
says where's your 10%?

There is an empathy gap. There is a gap in terms of sympathizing for the 
folks in New Orleans. It's not a gap that the American people felt because 
we saw how they responded. But somehow our government didn't respond with 
that same sense of compassion, with that same sense of kindness. And here 
is the worst part, the tragedy in New Orleans happened well before the 
hurricane struck because many of those communities, there were so many 
young men in prison, so many kids dropping out, so little hope.



A hope gap. A hope gap that still pervades too many communities all across 
the country and right here in Alabama. So the question is, then, what are 
we, the Joshua generation, doing to close those gaps? Are we doing every 
single thing that we can do in Congress in order to make sure that early 
education is adequately funded and making sure that we are raising the 
minimum wage so people can have dignity and respect?

Are we ensuring that, if somebody loses a job, that they're getting 
retrained? And that, if they've lost their health care and pension, 
somebody is there to help them get back on their feet? Are we making sure 
we're giving a second chance to those who have strayed and gone to prison 
but want to start a new life? Government alone can't solve all those 
problems, but government can help. It's the responsibility of the Joshua 
generation to make sure that we have a government that is as responsive as 
the need that exists all across America. That brings me to one other point, 
about the Joshua generation, and that is this -- that it's not enough just 
to ask what the government can do for us-- it's important for us to ask 
what we can do for ourselves.

One of the signature aspects of the civil rights movement was the degree of 
discipline and fortitude that was instilled in all the people who 
participated. Imagine young people, 16, 17, 20, 21, backs straight, eyes 
clear, suit and tie, sitting down at a lunch counter knowing somebody is 
going to spill milk on you but you have the discipline to understand that 
you are not going to retaliate because in showing the world how disciplined 
we were as a people, we were able to win over the conscience of the nation. 
I can't say for certain that we have instilled that same sense of moral 
clarity and purpose in this generation. Bishop, sometimes I feel like we've 
lost it a little bit.

I'm fighting to make sure that our schools are adequately funded all across 
the country. With the inequities of relying on property taxes and people 
who are born in wealthy districts getting better schools than folks born in 
poor districts and that's now how it's supposed to be. That's not the 
American way. but I'll tell you what -- even as I fight on behalf of more 
education funding, more equity, I have to also say that , if parents don't 
turn off the television set when the child comes home from school and make 
sure they sit down and do their homework and go talk to the teachers and 
find out how they're doing, and if we don't start instilling a sense in our 
young children that there is nothing to be ashamed about in educational 
achievement, I don't know who taught them that reading and writing and 
conjugating your verbs was something white.

We've got to get over that mentality. That is part of what the Moses 
generation teaches us, not saying to ourselves we can't do something, but 
telling ourselves that we can achieve. We can do that. We got power in our 
hands. Folks are complaining about the quality of our government, I 
understand there's something to be complaining about. I'm in Washington. I 
see what's going on. I see those powers and principalities have snuck back 
in there, that they're writing the energy bills and the drug laws.

We understand that, but I'll tell you what. I also know that, if cousin 
Pookie would vote, get off the couch and register some folks and go to the 
polls, we might have a different kind of politics. That's what the Moses 
generation teaches us. Take off your bedroom slippers. Put on your marching 
shoes. Go do some politics. Change this country! That's what we need. We 
have too many children in poverty in this country and everybody should be 
ashamed, but don't tell me it doesn't have a little to do with the fact 
that we got too many daddies not acting like daddies. Don't think that 
fatherhood ends at conception. I know something about that because my 
father wasn't around when I was young and I struggled.

Those of you who read my book know. I went through some difficult times. I 
know what it means when you don't have a strong male figure in the house, 
which is why the hardest thing about me being in politics sometimes is not 
being home as much as I'd like and I'm just blessed that I've got such a 
wonderful wife at home to hold things together. Don't tell me that we can't 
do better by our children, that we can't take more responsibility for 
making sure we're instilling in them the values and the ideals that the 
Moses generation taught us about sacrifice and dignity and honesty and hard 
work and discipline and self-sacrifice. That comes from us. We've got to 
transmit that to the next generation and I guess the point that I'm making 
is that the civil rights movement wasn't just a fight against the 
oppressor; it was also a fight against the oppressor in each of us.

Sometimes it's easy to just point at somebody else and say it's their 
fault, but oppression has a way of creeping into it. Reverend, it has a way 
of stunting yourself. You start telling yourself, Bishop, I can't do 
something. I can't read. I can't go to college. I can't start a business. I 
can't run for Congress. I can't run for the presidency. People start 
telling you-- you can't do something, after a while, you start believing it 
and part of what the civil rights movement was about was recognizing that 
we have to transform ourselves in order to transform the world. Mahatma 
Gandhi, great hero of Dr. King and the person who helped create the 
nonviolent movement around the world; he once said that you can't change 
the world if you haven't changed.

If you want to change the world, the change has to happen with you first 
and that is something that the greatest and most honorable of generations 
has taught us, but the final thing that I think the Moses generation 
teaches us is to remind ourselves that we do what we do because God is with 
us. You know, when Moses was first called to lead people out of the 
Promised Land, he said I don't think I can do it, Lord. I don't speak like 
Reverend Lowery. I don't feel brave and courageous and the Lord said I will 
be with you. Throw down that rod. Pick it back up. I'll show you what to 
do. The same thing happened with the Joshua generation.

Joshua said, you know, I'm scared. I'm not sure that I am up to the 
challenge, the Lord said to him, every place that the sole of your foot 
will tread upon, I have given you. Be strong and have courage, for I am 
with you wherever you go. Be strong and have courage. It's a prayer for a 
journey. A prayer that kept a woman in her seat when the bus driver told 
her to get up, a prayer that led nine children through the doors of the 
little rock school, a prayer that carried our brothers and sisters over a 
bridge right here in Selma, Alabama. Be strong and have courage.

When you see row and row of state trooper facing you, the horses and the 
tear gas, how else can you walk? Towards them, unarmed, unafraid. When they 
come start beating your friends and neighbors, how else can you simply 
kneel down, bow your head and ask the Lord for salvation? When you see 
heads gashed open and eyes burning and children lying hurt on the side of 
the road, when you are John Lewis and you've been beaten within an inch of 
your life on Sunday, how do you wake up Monday and keep on marching?

Be strong and have courage, for I am with you wherever you go. We've come a 
long way in this journey, but we still have a long way to travel. We 
traveled because God was with us. It's not how far we've come. That bridge 
outside was crossed by blacks and whites, northerners and southerners, 
teenagers and children, the beloved community of God's children, they 
wanted to take those steps together, but it was left to the Joshua's to 
finish the journey Moses had begun and today we're called to be the 
Joshua's of our time, to be the generation that finds our way across this 
river.

There will be days when the water seems wide and the journey too far, but 
in those moments, we must remember that throughout our history, there has 
been a running thread of ideals that have guided our travels and pushed us 
forward, even when they're just beyond our reach, liberty in the face of 
tyranny, opportunity where there was none and hope over the most crushing 
despair. Those ideals and values beckon us still and when we have our 
doubts and our fears, just like Joshua did, when the road looks too long 
and it seems like we may lose our way, remember what these people did on 
that bridge.

Keep in your heart the prayer of that journey, the prayer that God gave to 
Joshua. Be strong and have courage in the face of injustice. Be strong and 
have courage in the face of prejudice and hatred, in the face of 
joblessness and helplessness and hopelessness. Be strong and have courage, 
brothers and sisters, those who are gathered here today, in the face of our 
doubts and fears, in the face of skepticism, in the face of cynicism, in 
the face of a mighty river.

Be strong and have courage and let us cross over that Promised Land 
together. Thank you so much everybody.

God bless you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Restricted, seek permission.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.