 

 

Barack Obama

Nomination of Key National Security Team Members

Delivered 1 December 2008, Chicago, Illinois

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good morning, everybody. I hope you all had a wonderful Thanksgiving.

Last week, we announced our economic team
 , which is working as we speak to 
craft an Economic Recovery Program to create jobs and grow our struggling 
economy. Today, Vice President-elect Biden and I are pleased to announce 
our national security team.

The national security challenges we face are just as grave -- and just as 
urgent -- as our economic crisis. We are fighting two wars. Our old 
conflicts remain unresolved, and newly assertive powers have put strains on 
the international system. The spread of nuclear weapons raises the peril 
that the world’s deadliest technologies could fall into dangerous hands. 
Our dependence on foreign oil empowers authoritarian governments and 
endangers our planet.

America must also be strong at home to be strong abroad. We need to provide 
education and opportunity to all our citizens, so every American can 
compete with anyone, anywhere. And our economic power must sustain our 
military strength, our diplomatic leverage, and our global leadership.

The common thread linking these challenges is the fundamental reality that 
in the 21st century, our destiny is shared with the world's. From our 
markets to our security, from our public health to our climate, we must act 
with the understanding that, now more than ever, we have a stake in what 
happens across the globe. And as we learned so painfully on 9/11
 , terror cannot be contained by borders, 
nor safety provided by oceans alone.

Last week, we were reminded of this threat once again when terrorists took 
the lives of six American among nearly 200 victims in Mumbai. In the world 
we seek, there is no place for those who kill innocent civilians to advance 
hateful extremism. This weekend, I told Prime Minister Singh
 of India that Americans stand 
with the people of India in this dark time. And I am confident that India's 
great democracy is more resilient than killers who would tear it down.

And so, in this uncertain world, the time has come for a new beginning -- a 
new dawn of American leadership to overcome the challenges of the 21st 
century, and to seize the opportunities embedded in those challenges. We 
will strengthen our capacity to defeat our enemies and support our friends. 
We will renew old alliances and forge new and enduring partnerships. We 
will show the world once more that America is relentless in the defense of 
our people, steady in advancing our interests, and committed to the ideals 
that shine as a beacon to the world: democracy and justice; opportunity and 
unyielding hope -- because American values are America’s greatest export to 
the world.

To succeed, we must pursue a new strategy that skillfully uses, balances, 
and integrates all elements of American power: our military and diplomacy; 
our intelligence and law enforcement; our economy and the power of our 
moral example. The team that we've assembled here today is uniquely suited 
to do just that.

In their past service and plans for the future, these men and women 
represent all of those elements of American power, and the very best of the 
American example. They've served in uniform and as diplomats; they have 
worked as legislators, law enforcement officials, and executives. They 
share my pragmatism about the use of power, and my sense of purpose about 
America's role as a leader in the world.

I have known Hillary Clinton  
as a friend, a colleague, a source of counsel, and as a campaign opponent. 
She possesses an extraordinary intelligence and a remarkable work ethic. I 
am proud that she will be our next Secretary of State. She is an American 
of tremendous stature who will have my complete confidence, who knows many 
of the world's leaders, who will command respect in every capitol, and who 
will clearly have the ability to advance our interests around the world.

Hillary’s appointment is a sign to friend and foe of the seriousness of my 
commitment to renew American diplomacy and restore our alliances. There is 
much to do -- from preventing the spread of nuclear weapons to Iran and 
North Korea, to seeking a lasting peace between Israel and the 
Palestinians, to strengthening international institutions. I have no doubt 
that Hillary Clinton is the right person to lead our State Department, and 
to work with me in tackling this ambitious foreign policy agenda.

At a time when we face unprecedented transition amidst two wars, I've have 
asked Robert Gates  to continue 
as Secretary of Defense, and I'm pleased that he's accepted. Two years ago, 
he took over the Pentagon at a difficult time. He restored accountability. 
He won the confidence of military commanders and the trust of our brave men 
and women in uniform, as well as their families. He earned the respect of 
members of Congress on both sides of the aisle for his pragmatism and 
competence. He knows that we need a sustainable national security strategy 
-- and that includes a bipartisan consensus at home.

As I said throughout the campaign, I will be giving Secretary Gates and our 
military a new mission as soon as I take office: responsibly ending the war 
in Iraq through a successful transition to Iraqi control. We will also 
ensure that we have the strategy and resources to succeed against al Qaeda 
and the Taliban. As Bob said not too long ago, Afghanistan is where the war 
on terror began, and it is where it must end. And going forward, we will 
continue to make the investments necessary to strengthen our military and 
increase our ground forces to defeat the threats of the 21st century.

Eric Holder  has the talent and 
commitment to succeed as Attorney General from his first day on the job, 
which is even more important in a transition that demands vigilance. He has 
distinguished himself as a prosecutor, a judge, and a senior official, and 
he is deeply familiar with the law enforcement challenges we face -- from 
terrorism to counter-intelligence, from white collar crime to public 
corruption. Eric also has the combination of toughness and independence 
that we need at the Justice Department. Let me be clear: The Attorney 
General serves the American people. And I have every expectation that Eric 
will protect our people, uphold the public trust, and adhere to our 
Constitution.

Janet Napolitano  offers the 
experience and executive skills we need in the next Secretary of Homeland 
Security. She has spent her career protecting people -- as a US Attorney, 
an Attorney General, and as the Governor of Arizona. She understands the 
need for a Department of Homeland Security that has the capacity to help 
prevent terrorist attacks and respond to catastrophe -- be it manmade or 
natural. Janet assumes this critical role having learned the lessons -- 
some of them painful -- of the last several years, from 9/11 to Katrina. 
She insists on competence and accountability. She knows firsthand the need 
to have a partner in Washington that works well with state and local 
governments. She understands as well as anyone the danger of an unsecure 
border. And she will be a leader who can reform a sprawling Department 
while safeguarding our homeland.

Susan Rice  will take on the 
crucial task of serving as Permanent Representative of the United States to 
the United Nations. Susan has been a close and trusted advisor. As in 
previous Administrations, the UN Ambassador will serve as a member of my 
cabinet and an integral member of my team. Her background as a scholar, on 
the National Security Council, and Assistant Secretary of State will serve 
our nation well at the United Nations. Susan knows that the global 
challenges we face demand global institutions that work. She shares my 
belief that the UN is an indispensable and imperfect forum. She will carry 
the message that our commitment to multilateral action must be coupled with 
a commitment to reform. We need the United Nations to be more effective as 
a venue for collective action -- against terror and proliferation, climate 
change and genocide, poverty and disease.

Finally, I am convinced that General James Jones
 is uniquely suited to be 
a strong and skilled National Security Advisor. Generations of Joneses have 
served heroically on the battlefield -- from the beaches of Tarawa in World 
War II, to Foxtrot Ridge in Vietnam. Jim's Silver Star
 is a proud part of that legacy. 
He will bring to the job the dual experience of serving in uniform and as a 
diplomat. He has commanded a platoon in battle, served as Supreme Allied 
Commander in a time of war, and worked on behalf of peace in the Middle 
East. Jim is focused on the threats of today and the future. He understands 
the connection between energy and national security, and has worked on the 
frontlines of global instability – from Kosovo to northern Iraq to 
Afghanistan. He will advise me and work effectively to integrate our 
efforts across the government, so that we are effectively using all 
elements of American power to defeat unconventional threats and promote our 
values.

I am confident that this team is what we need to make a new beginning for 
American national security. This morning, we met to discuss the situation 
in Mumbai and some of the challenges that we face in the months and years 
ahead. In the coming weeks, I will be in close contact with these advisors, 
who will be working with their counterparts in the Bush Administration to 
make sure that we are ready to hit the ground running on January 20th. 
Given the range of threats that we face and the vulnerability that can be a 
part of every presidential transition, I hope that we can proceed swiftly 
for those national security officials who demand confirmation.

We move forward with the humility that comes with knowing that there are 
brave men and women protecting us on our front lines: diplomats and 
intelligence officers in dangerous corners of the world, troops serving 
their second, third, or fourth tours; FBI agents in the field, cops on the 
beat, prosecutors in our courts, and cargo inspectors at our ports. These 
selfless Americans whose names are unknown to most of us will form the 
backbone of our effort. If we serve as well as they are serving, we will 
protect our country and promote our values.

And as we move forward with respect for America's tradition of a bipartisan 
national security policy and a commitment to national unity, we have to 
recall that when it comes to keeping our nation and our people safe, we are 
not Republicans or Democrats: We are Americans. There's no monopoly of 
power or wisdom in either party. Together, as one nation, as one people, we 
can shape our times instead of being shaped by them. Together, we will meet 
the challenges of the 21st century not with fear, but with hope.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text Source: Change.gov 

Copyright Status: Text = Creative Commons License 3.0
 .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.