 

 

Barack Obama

Ebenezer Baptist Church Address

Delivered 20 January 2008, Ebenezer Baptist Church, Atlanta

 

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Scripture tells us that when Joshua and the Israelites arrived at the gates 
of Jericho, they could not enter. The walls of the city were too steep for 
any one person to climb. They were too strong to be taken down by brute 
force. And so, the people sat for days, unable to pass on through; but God 
had a plan for His People. He told them to stand together and march 
together around the city, and on the seventh day he told them that when 
they heard the sound of the ram’s horn, they should speak with one voice. 
And, at the chosen hour when the horn sounded and a chorus of voices cried 
out together, the mighty walls of Jericho came tumbling down. That’s what 
scripture tells us.

And there are many lessons to take from this passage, just as there are 
many lessons to take from this day, just as there are many memories that 
fill the space of this church. As I was thinking about which ones we needed 
to remember at this hour, my mind went back to the very beginning of the 
modern Civil Rights era. Because before Memphis
 
and the mountaintop  , 
before the bridge in Selm
 a and the march 
on Washington
 , 
before Birmingham
 
and the beatings, the fire hoses
 
, and the loss of those four little girls
 
, before there was King the icon and his magnificent dream
 , there was King the young preacher and 
a people who found themselves suffering under the yolk of oppression. And 
on the eve of the bus boycotts in Montgomery, at a time when many were 
still doubtful about the possibilities of change, a time when there were 
those in the black community who not only mistrusted each other, but 
mistrusted themselves -- King inspired with words not of anger, but of an 
urgency, a fierce urgency that still speaks to us today. “Unity,” he said, 
“is the great need of the hour.” “Unity is the great need of the hour.” 
Unity is how we shall overcome.

What Dr. King understood is that if just one person chose to walk instead 
of ri[de] the bus, those walls of oppression would not be moved. But maybe 
if a few more decided to walk, those foundations might start to shake. If 
just a few women were willing to do what Rosa Parks had been willing to do, 
maybe the cracks in those walls would start to show. If teenagers took 
rides from North to South, maybe a few bricks would come loose. Maybe if 
white folks marched because they’d come to understand that their freedom 
was wrapped up in the freedom of others, that they too had a stake in the 
impending battle, the walls would begin to sway, and if enough Americans 
were awakened to injustice, if they joined together North and South, rich 
and poor, Jew and Gentile, then perhaps that wall would come tumbling down, 
and justice would flow like waters of righteousness, like a mighty stream. 
“Unity is the great need of the hour.” That’s what Dr. King said. It is the 
great need of this hour as well, not because it sounds pleasant, not 
because it makes us feel good, but because it's the only way we can 
overcome the essential deficit that exits in this country.

I’m not talking about the budget deficit. I’m not talking about the trade 
deficit. Talking about the moral deficit in this country. I’m talking about 
an empathy deficit, the inability to recognize ourselves in one another, to 
understand that we are our brother’s keeper and our sister’s keeper, that 
in the words of Dr. King
 , 
“We are all tied together in a single garment of destiny.” We have an 
empathy deficit when we’re still sending our children down corridors of 
shame, schools in the forgotten corners of America where the color of your 
skin still affects the content of your education. We have a deficit when 
CEOs are making more in ten minutes than ordinary workers are making in an 
entire year, when families lose their homes so unscrupulous lenders can 
make a profit, when mothers can’t afford a doctor when their children are 
stricken with illness. We have a deficit in this country when we have 
Scooter Libby justice for some and Jena justice for others, when our 
children see hanging nooses from a school yard tree today, in the present, 
in the 21st century. We have a deficit when homeless veterans sleep on the 
streets of our cities, when innocents are slaughtered in the deserts of 
Darfur, when young Americans serve tour after tour after tour after tour of 
duty in a war that should have never been authorized and should have never 
been waged. We have an empathy deficit in this country that has to be 
closed. We have a deficit when it takes a breach in the levees to reveal 
the breach in our compassion, when it takes a terrible storm to reveal the 
hungry that God calls on us to feed, the sick that He calls on us to care 
for, the least of these that He commands that we treat as our own. So, we 
have a deficit to close. We have walls, barriers to justice and equality 
that must come down, and to do this, we know that “unity is the great need 
of the hour.”

However, all too often, when we talk about unity in this country, we’ve 
come to believe that it can be purchased on the cheap. We’ve come to 
believe that racial reconciliation can come easily; that it’s just a matter 
of a few ignorant people trapped in the prejudices of the past, and that if 
the demagogues and those who would exploit our racial divisions will simply 
go away then all our problems will be solved. All too often, we seek to 
ignore the profound structural and institutional barriers that stand in the 
way of insuring opportunity for all of our children, or decent jobs for all 
of our people, or health care for those who are sick. We offer unity, but 
we are not willing to pay the price that's required 

Of course, true unity cannot be so easily purchased. It starts with a 
change in attitudes. It starts with changing our hearts, and changing our 
minds, broadening our spirit. It’s not easy to stand in somebody else’s 
shoes. It’s not easy to see past our own differences. We’ve all encountered 
this in our own lives. What makes it even more difficult is that we have a 
politics in this country that seeks to drive us apart, that puts up walls 
between us. We are told that those who differ from us on a few things, 
differ from us on all things, that our problems are the fault of those who 
don’t think like us or look like us or come from where we do. The Welfare 
Queen, she’s taking our money. The Immigrant, he’s taking our jobs. The 
believer condemns the nonbeliever as immoral, and the nonbeliever chides 
the believer for being intolerant.

And for most of this country’s history, we in the African-American 
community have been at the receiving end of man’s inhumanity to man. And 
all of us understand insidious -- All of us understand intimately the 
insidious role that race still sometimes plays on the job and in the 
schools, in our health care system, and in our criminal justice system.

And yet, if we are honest with ourselves, we must admit that none of our 
hands are entirely clean. If we’re honest with ourselves, we'll acknowledge 
that our own community has not always been true to King’s vision of a 
beloved community. If we’re honest with ourselves, we have to admit that 
there have been times when we've scorned our gay brothers and sisters 
instead of embracing them. The scourge of anti-Semitism has at times 
revealed itself in our community. For too long, some of us have seen 
immigrants only as competitors for jobs instead of companions in the fight 
for opportunity. Everyday our politics fuels and exploits this kind of 
division across all races and regions, across gender and party. It is 
played out on television; it is sensationalized by the media. Last week, it 
crept into the campaign for President with charges and countercharges that 
serve to obscure the issues instead of illuminating the critical choices we 
face as a nation. None of our hands are clean.

So let us say that on this day of all days, each of us carries with us the 
task of changing our hearts and minds. The divisions, the stereotypes, the 
scapegoating, the ease with which we blame the plight of ourselves on 
others -- all of that distracts us from the common challenges that we face, 
war and poverty, inequality and injustice. We can no longer afford to build 
ourselves up by tearing each other down. We can no longer afford to traffic 
in lies or fear or hate. It's the poison that we must purge from our 
politics, the wall that we must tear down before the hour grows too late. 
Because if Dr. King could love his jailer, if he could call on the 
faithful, who once sat where you do, to forgive those who had set dogs and 
fire hoses upon them, then surely we can look past what divides us in our 
time and bind up our wounds and erase the sympathy deficit that exists in 
our hearts.

But if changing our hearts and our minds is the first critical step, we 
cannot stop there. It’s not enough to bemoan the plight of the poor in this 
country and remain unwilling to push our elected officials to provide the 
resources to fix our schools. It's not enough to decry the disparities of 
health care and yet allow the insurance companies and the drug companies to 
block real reform in our health care system. It’s not enough -- It’s not 
enough for us to abhor the costs of a misguided war, and yet we continue to 
allow ourselves to be driven by a politics of fear that sees the threat of 
an attack as a way to scare up votes instead of a call to come together in 
a common effort.

Scripture tells us that we are judged not just by word but by deed. And if 
we are truly to bring about the unity that is needed, that is so crucial in 
this time, we have to find it within ourselves to act on what we know, to 
understand that living up to this country’s ideals and its possibilities is 
going to require great effort and great resources, sacrifice and stamina. 
We can’t pass a law called No Child Left Behind
 and then leave the 
money behind. That is not a serious effort in bringing about the unity that 
is needed. We can’t celebrate Dr. King’s dream, and yet still have 
insufficient funds to cash that promissory note that was promised at the 
beginning of this nation. That is what is at stake in this great debate we 
are having today. Changes that are needed are not just a matter of 
tinkering around the edges. They will not come if politicians simply tell 
us what we want to hear. All of us will be called upon to make some 
sacrifice. None of us will be exempt from responsibility. We've had to 
fight to fix our schools, but we also have to challenge ourselves to be 
better parents, and turn off the television set, and put away the video 
game, and our men have to be home with our children. That, too, is part of 
the challenge that we must make.

We will have to confront the biases in our criminal justice system, but we 
also have to acknowledge the deep-seeded violence that still resides in our 
own communities, in too many of the hearts of our young people, and we have 
to break the grip of that violence wherever we see it. That’s how we’re 
going to bring about the change that we seek. That’s how Dr. King led this 
country through the wilderness. He did it with words, words that he spoke 
not just to the children of slaves but the children of slave owners, words 
that inspired not just black but also white, not just Christian but also 
Jew and Muslim and Buddhists and Atheists, not just the southerner but also 
the northerner. He led with words, but he also led with deeds. He also led 
by example. He led by marching and going to jail and suffering threats and 
beatings and being away from his family. He led by taking a stand against a 
war knowing full well that it would diminish his popularity. He led by 
challenging our economic structures, understanding that it would cause 
discomfort. Dr. King understood that unity cannot be won on the cheap, that 
we would have to earn it through great effort and determination. That’s the 
unity, the hard earned unity that we need right now. That is the effort, 
the determination that can transform blind optimism into hope.

You know people have remarked on the fact that I talk about hope a lot in 
my campaign. You know they -- they tease me a little bit. Some have been 
scornful. They say, “Ah, he’s talking about hope again. He’s so idealistic. 
He’s so naïve. He’s a hope monger.” That’s okay. It’s true. I talk about 
hope. I talk about it a lot because the odds of me standing here today are 
so small, so remote that I couldn’t of gotten here without some hope. You 
know my -- my daddy left me when I was two years old. I needed some hope to 
get here. I was raised by a single mother. I needed some hope to get here. 
I got in trouble when I was a teenager, did some things folks now like to 
talk about. I needed some hope to get here. I wasn’t born into money, or 
great wealth, or great privilege, or status. I was given love, an 
education, and some hope. That’s what I got. That’s my birthright.

So I talk about hope. I -- I put “Hope” on my campaign signs. It doesn’t 
even have my name on them sometimes -- just says “Hope.” Folks don’t know 
who they’re voting for, but it makes them feel good. Say, you know, huh? I 
spoke about hope at the Democratic Convention
 . I -- I wrote a 
book called The Audacity of Hope
 
. And so I -- so I’m puzzled when -- when some people, some of the other 
candidates make a mockery of the idea. They say I’m pedaling false hopes. 
"Get a reality check," they tell me. And I have to -- I have to try to 
understand what they're saying. The implication is is that if you are 
hopeful, that you somehow must be engaging in wishful thinking. Your -- 
Your head must be in the clouds; that you must be passive and just sit back 
and wait for things to happen to you. That seems to be the implication.

And so I have to explain to people that’s not what hope is. Hope is not 
blind optimism. Hope is not ignorance of the barriers and hurdles and 
hazards that stand in your way. Hope’s just the opposite. I know how hard 
it will be to provide health care to every single American. The insurance 
companies, drug companies, they don’t want to give up their profits. I know 
it won’t be easy to have a energy policy that makes sense for America 
because the oil companies like writing the energy bills. I know that 
alleviating poverty, or making sure all our children can learn, or 
eliminating the scourge of racism in our society -- none of those things 
lend themselves to simple solutions.

I know because I fought on the streets as a community organizer in poor 
neighborhoods on the Southside of Chicago alongside those without jobs or 
without prospects for the future. I have fought in the courts as a civil 
rights attorney for those who had been denied opportunity on the job or 
denied access to the ballot box. I’ve seen good legislation die because -- 
Well, I’ve seen that too -- I’ve seen good legislation die because good 
intentions weren’t enough, because they weren’t fortified with a political 
majority and political will. I’ve seen this country -- this country’s 
judgment clouded by fear. I know how easily a country can be misled when it 
is afraid. I know how hard it is. Everybody here understands how difficult 
it is to bring about true change, change that we can believe in. But I also 
know this -- that nothing in this country worthwhile has ever happened 
except somebody somewhere decided to hope.

That’s how this country was founded because a group of patriots decided 
they were going to take on the British Empire. Nobody was putting their 
money on them. That’s how slaves and abolitionists resisted that evil 
system. That’s how a new President was able to chart a course to insure 
that this nation would no longer remain half slave and half free. That’s 
how the greatest generation defeated Fascism and overcame a Great 
Depression. That’s how women won the right to vote. That’s how workers won 
the right to organize. That’s how young people and old people and 
middle-aged folks were willing to walk instead of ride the bus, and folks 
came down on Freedom Rides  . 
They marched, and they sat in, and they were beaten and fire houses were 
sent on them, and dogs were sent on them, and some went to jail, and some 
died for freedom's cause. That’s what hope is. Imagining and then fighting 
for and struggling for and sometimes dying for what didn’t seem possible 
before. There’s nothing naïve about that. There are no false hopes in that.

I don’t believe in false hopes. Imagine if John F. Kennedy had looked up at 
the moon and said, "Well, that’s too far." False hopes, we can’t go there. 
If Dr. King had stood on the Lincoln Memorial and said, "Y’all go home; we 
can’t overcome." There’s no such thing as false hopes, but what I know deep 
in my heart is that we cannot bring about change unless we are unified, 
unless we do it together. Change does not happen from the top down -- in 
America or anywhere else. It happens from the bottom up. It happens because 
ordinary people dream extraordinary things. It’s because all of you decide 
that change must come. That I know.

It wasn’t just one voice -- It wasn't just one voice that shouted out 
before the walls of Jericho. All the voices came together, a chorus of 
voices. That’s what gives me hope: not just those who ascend to high 
office, but the changes that are happening in ordinary places. The stories 
that give me my hope don’t happen in the spotlight. When I think about Dr. 
King, I suspect he was sustained not by having dinner with Presidents; not 
by getting the Nobel Peace Prize  ; but 
coming back to church and seeing the mothers of the church and the deacons. 
Those who maintained their dignity were standing up straight in the face of 
injustice. That’s where he drew his hope. He saw God in their faces. Those 
stories don’t happen on a presidential stage; they happen in the quiet 
quarters of our lives. They happen in the moments we least expect. So, let 
me close by giving an example of one of those stories.

There is a young woman, 23 years old, white woman, named Ashley Baia, who 
organizes for our campaign in Florence, South Carolina. Ashley has been 
working to organize mostly black folks. She’s in Florence, South Carolina. 
She’s been doing it since the beginning of the campaign, and the other day 
she...set up a round table discussion where everyone around was telling 
their story about who they were and why they were there. And so, Ashley 
explained, she started things off, by explaining why she was there. And she 
explained that when she was nine years old her mother got cancer, and 
because she had to miss a day of work she was let go; and she lost her 
health care; and then she had to file for bankruptcy. They were on hard 
times, and that’s when Ashley, nine-years-old at the time, decided she had 
to do something to help her mom, and she knew that food was one of their 
most expensive costs. They didn’t have a lot of money. Ashley lived in a 
poor household.

And so Ashley convinced her mother that she really liked and really wanted 
to eat more than anything else mustard and relish sandwiches. She had heard 
that condiments like mustard and relish were cheap. And she -- she 
concocted in her own mind at the age of nine that she would convince her 
mother that that’s the only thing she wanted to eat everyday, because she 
figured that would be a way of saving money for the family and helping them 
alleviate their hardships. So she did this for a year until her mom got 
better. And in that round table she told everyone that the reason she 
joined our campaign was so that she could help millions of other children 
in the country who want and need to help their parents too. She had heard 
me speak about my mother having cancer and having to worry about maybe not 
getting the health care she needed because of a preexisting condition, and 
she had connected with that. She thought, maybe Barack would fight for my 
mother. And if he would fight for my mother, then maybe I will fight 
alongside him. That’s what had brought her to Florence.

So Ashley finishes her story and then goes around the room and asks 
everyone else why they’re supporting the campaign. They all have different 
stories and different reasons: some bring up specific issues; some talk 
about, upset about, affirmative action; some talk about, you know, "I want 
to see more jobs in the community"; some are frustrated about trade; some 
just like me.

So they all got a bunch of different reasons, and finally, at the end of 
this discussion, they come to this elderly black man. He’s been sitting 
there quiet the whole time, hasn’t been saying a word. And Ashley asks him 
why is he there. And he doesn’t bring up a specific issue. He does not say 
healthcare or the economy. He doesn’t talk about the Iraq War. He doesn’t 
say anything about education. He doesn’t say that he’s there because he 
likes Barack Obama, or he’s proud of the possibility of the first African 
American President. He simply says to everyone in the room, “I am here 
because of Ashley. I am here because of this young girl, and the fact that 
she's willing to fight for what she believes in. And that reminds me that I 
still have some fight left in me, and I’m going stand up for what I believe 
in.”

Now, by itself, that single moment of recognition between that young white 
girl and that old black man, that’s not enough to change a country. By 
itself, it’s not enough to give health care to the sick or jobs to the 
jobless or education to our children, but it is where we begin. It’s why I 
believe that the walls in that room began to shake at that moment. And if 
they can shake in that room, then they can shake here in Atlanta, and if 
they can shake in Atlanta, then they can shake in the state of Georgia, and 
if they can shake in Georgia, they can shake all across America. And if 
enough of our voices join together, if we see each other in each other’s 
eyes, we can bring those walls tumbling down. The walls of Jericho can 
finally come tumbling down.

That is our hope, but only if we pray together, if we work together, and if 
we march together. Ebenezer, we cannot walk alone. Brothers and sisters, we 
cannot walk alone. In the struggle for justice and for equality, we cannot 
walk alone. In the struggle for opportunity and justice, we cannot walk 
alone. In the struggle to heal this nation and repair the world, we cannot 
walk alone. So I ask you to walk with me and march with me and join your 
voices with mine, and together we will sing the song that tears down the 
walls that divide us and lift up an America that is truly indivisible with 
liberty and justice for all.

May God bless the memory of the great pastor of this church.

And may God bless the United States of America.

Thank you. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Images #1 and #3 (Screenshots) Source: YouTube.com 

Copyright Status: Text = Uncertain. Images = Restricted, seek permission.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Jenny Woodle & Michael E. Eidenmuller.