 

 

Barack Obama

South Carolina Democratic Primary Victory Speech

delivered 26 January 2008

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Thank you, South Carolina.

Thank you to the rock of my life, Michelle Obama. Thank you to Malia and 
Sasha Obama, who haven't seen their daddy in a week. Thank you to Pete 
Skidmore for his outstanding service to our country and being such a great 
supporter of this campaign.

You know, over two weeks ago we saw the people of Iowa proclaim that our 
time for change has come. But there were those who doubted this country's 
desire for something new, who said Iowa was a fluke, not to be repeated 
again. Well, tonight the cynics who believed that what began in the snows 
of Iowa was just an illusion were told a different story by the good people 
of South Carolina.

After four great contests in every corner of this country, we have the most 
votes, the most delegates -- and the most diverse coalition of Americans 
that we've seen in a long, long time.

You can see it in the faces here tonight. There are young and old, rich and 
poor. They are black and white, Latino and Asian and Native American. They 
are Democrats from Des Moines and independents from Concord and, yes, some 
Republicans from rural Nevada. And we've got young people all across this 
country who've never had a reason to participate until now.

And in nine days, in nine short days, nearly half the nation will have the 
chance to join us in saying that we are tired of business as usual in 
Washington. We are hungry for change, and we are ready to believe again.

But if there's anything, though, that we've been reminded of since Iowa, 
it's that the kind of change we seek will not come easy. Now, partly 
because we have fine candidates in this field, fierce competitors who are 
worthy of our respect and our admiration -- and as contentious as this 
campaign may get, we have to remember that this is a contest for the 
Democratic nomination and that all of us share an abiding desire to end the 
disastrous policies of the current administration.

But there are real differences between the candidates. We are looking for 
more than just a change of party in the White House. We're looking to 
fundamentally change the status quo in Washington. It's a status quo that 
extends beyond any particular party. And right now that status quo is 
fighting back with everything it's got, with the same old tactics that 
divide and distract us from solving the problems people face, whether those 
problems are health care that folks can't afford or a mortgage they cannot 
pay.

So this will not be easy. Make no mistake about what we're up against. 
We're up against the belief that it's all right for lobbyists to dominate 
our government, that they are just part of the system in Washington. But we 
know that the undue influence of lobbyists is part of the problem, and this 
election is our chance to say that we are not going to let them stand in 
our way anymore.

We're up against the conventional thinking that says your ability to lead 
as president comes from longevity in Washington or proximity to the White 
House. But we know that real leadership is about candor and judgment and 
the ability to rally Americans from all walks of life around a common 
purpose, a higher purpose.

We're up against decades of bitter partisanship that cause politicians to 
demonize their opponents instead of coming together to make college 
affordable or energy cleaner. It's the kind of partisanship where you're 
not even allowed to say that a Republican had an idea, even if it's one you 
never agreed with. That's the kind of politics that is bad for our party. 
It is bad for our country. And this is our chance to end it once and for 
all.

We're up against the idea that it's acceptable to say anything and do 
anything to win an election. But we know that this is exactly what's wrong 
with our politics. This is why people don't believe what their leaders say 
anymore. This is why they tune out. And this election is our chance to give 
the American people a reason to believe again.

But let me say this, South Carolina. What we've seen in these last weeks is 
that we're also up against forces that are not the fault of any one 
campaign but feed the habits that prevent us from being who we want to be 
as a nation.

It's a politics that uses religion as a wedge and patriotism as a bludgeon, 
a politics that tells us that we have to think, act, and even vote within 
the confines of the categories that supposedly define us, the assumption 
that young people are apathetic, the assumption that Republicans won't 
cross over, the assumption that the wealthy care nothing for the poor and 
that the poor don't vote, the assumption that African-Americans can't 
support the white candidate, whites can't support the African-American 
candidate, blacks and Latinos cannot come together.

We are here tonight to say that that is not the America we believe in.

I did not travel around this state over the last year and see a white South 
Carolina or a black South Carolina. I saw South Carolina -- because in the 
end, we're not up just against the ingrained and destructive habits of 
Washington. We're also struggling with our own doubts, our own fears, our 
own cynicism. The change we seek has always required great struggle and 
great sacrifice. And so this is a battle in our own hearts and minds about 
what kind of country we want and how hard we're willing to work for it.

So let me remind you tonight that change will not be easy. Change will take 
time. There will be setbacks and false starts, and sometimes we'll make 
mistakes. But as hard as it may seem, we cannot lose hope, because there 
are people all across this great nation who are counting on us, who can't 
afford another four years without health care. They can't afford another 
four years without good schools. They can't afford another four years 
without decent wages because our leaders couldn't come together and get it 
done.

Theirs are the stories and voices we carry on from South Carolina -- the 
mother who can't get Medicaid to cover all the needs of her sick child. She 
needs us to pass a health care plan that cuts costs and makes health care 
available and affordable for every single American. That's what she's 
looking for.

The teacher who works another shift at Dunkin' Donuts after school just to 
make ends meet -- she needs us to reform our education system so that she 
gets better pay and more support and that students get the resources that 
they need to achieve their dreams.

The Maytag worker who's now competing with his own teenager for a 
$7-an-hour job at the local Wal-Mart because the factory he gave his life 
to shut its doors -- he needs us to stop giving tax breaks to companies 
that ship our jobs overseas and start putting them in the pockets of 
working Americans who deserve it -- and put them in the pockets of 
struggling homeowners who are having a tough time, and looking after 
seniors who should retire with dignity and respect.

That woman who told me that she hasn't been able to breathe since the day 
her nephew left for Iraq, or the soldier who doesn't know his child because 
he's on his third or fourth or even fifth tour of duty -- they need us to 
come together and put an end to a war that should have never been 
authorized and should have never been waged.

So understand this, South Carolina. The choice in this election is not 
between regions or religions or genders. It's not about rich versus poor, 
young versus old, and it is not about black versus white.

This election is about the past versus the future. It's about whether we 
settle for the same divisions and distractions and drama that passes for 
politics today or whether we reach for a politics of common sense and 
innovation, a politics of shared sacrifice and shared prosperity.

There are those who will continue to tell us that we can't do this, that we 
can't have what we're looking for, that we can't have what we want, that 
we're peddling false hopes. But here's what I know. I know that when people 
say we can't overcome all the big money and influence in Washington, I 
think of that elderly woman who sent me a contribution the other day, an 
envelope that had a money order for $3.01 -- along with a verse of 
Scripture tucked inside the envelope. So don't tell us change isn't 
possible. That woman knows change is possible.

When I hear the cynical talk that blacks and whites and Latinos can't join 
together and work together, I'm reminded of the Latino brothers and sisters 
I organized with and stood with and fought with side by side for jobs and 
justice on the streets of Chicago. So don't tell us change can't happen.

When I hear that we'll never overcome the racial divide in our politics, I 
think about that Republican woman who used to work for Strom Thurmond, 
who's now devoted to educating inner-city children, and who went out into 
the streets of South Carolina and knocked on doors for this campaign. Don't 
tell me we can't change.

Yes, we can. Yes, we can change. Yes, we can.

Yes, we can heal this nation. Yes, we can seize our future. And as we leave 
this great state with a new wind at our backs, and we take this journey 
across this great country, a country we love, with the message we've 
carried from the plains of Iowa to the hills of New Hampshire, from the 
Nevada desert to the South Carolina coast, the same message we had when we 
were up and when we were down, that out of many we are one, that while we 
breathe we will hope, and where we are met with cynicism and doubt and fear 
and those who tell us that we can't, we will respond with that timeless 
creed that sums up the spirit of the American people in three simple words: 
Yes, we can.

Thank you, South Carolina. I love you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present.
American Rhetoric.