 

 

Barack Obama

Announces Nomination of Commerce Secretary, Bill Richardson

Delivered 3 December 2008, Chicago, Illinois

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Morning, everybody.

Last week, Vice President-Elect Biden and I began the process of 
announcing our economic team  . 
Today, we are pleased to name another key member of this team: our nominee 
for Secretary of Commerce, my great friend, Governor Bill Richardson
 .

With each passing day, the work our team has begun, developing plans to 
revive our economy, becomes more urgent. Earlier this week, we learned that 
the U.S. economy has been in recession since December of 2007 and that our 
manufacturing output is at a 26 year low -- two stark reminders of the 
magnitude of the challenges we face.

But while I know rebuilding our economy won’t be easy -- and it won’t be -- 
happen overnight -- I also know this: that right now, somewhere in America, 
a small business is at work with the next big idea; a scientist is on the 
cusp of the next big breakthrough discovery; an entrepreneur is sketching 
plans for the startup that will revolutionize an industry. Right now, 
across America, the finest products in the world are rolling off our 
assembly lines. And the proudest, most determined, most productive workers 
in the world are on the job -- some, already on their second shift of the 
day; many, putting in longer hours than ever before.

After nearly two years of traveling across this country, meeting with 
workers, visiting businesses large and small, I am more confident than ever 
that we have everything we need to renew our economy. We've got the 
ingenuity, the technology, the skill, and commitment; we just need to put 
it to work. It’s time to not just address the immediate economic threats, 
but to start laying the groundwork for long-term prosperity to help 
American businesses grow and thrive at home, and expand our efforts to 
promote American enterprise around the world.

This work is the core mission of the Secretary of Commerce. And with his 
breadth and depth of experience in public life, Governor Richardson is 
uniquely suited for this role as a leading economic diplomat for America. 
During his time in state government and Congress, and in tour -- two tours 
of duty in the cabinet, Bill has seen from just about every angle what 
makes our economy work and what keeps it from working better.

As Governor of New Mexico, Bill showed how government can act as a partner 
to support our businesses, helping to create 80,000 new jobs. And under his 
leadership, New Mexico saw the lowest unemployment rate in decades.

As a former Secretary of Energy, Bill understands the steps we must take to 
build a new, clean-energy industry and create the green jobs of the 
twenty-first century --  jobs that pay well and won’t be outsourced; jobs 
that will help us end our dependence on foreign oil.

And as a former Ambassador to the United Nations, Bill brings both 
international stature and a deep understanding of today’s global economy. 
He understands that the success of today’s business in Detroit or Columbus 
often depends on whether it can sell products in places like Santiago or 
Shanghai. And he knows that America’s reputation in the world is critical 
not just to our security, but to our prosperity -- (excuse me) -- that when 
the citizens of the world respect America’s leadership, they are more 
likely to buy America’s products.

To this crucial work of restoring America’s international standing, Bill 
will bring a leadership style all his own. Bill has never been content to 
just learn from briefing books, never satisfied with only the official 
version of the story. During his time in Congress, he held more than two -- 
2,500 town-hall meetings, so he could hear directly from constituents. He 
was a regular in the U.N. cafeteria, mixing it up with U.N. employees over 
lunch. And during his 2002 campaign for record -- for Governor, he actually 
broke a world record by shaking nearly 14,000 hands in just eight hours.

(I've got to check that statistic.)

All of this reflects a determination to reach out and understand where 
people are coming from, what they hope for, and what he can do to help. 
This approach, I believe, has been the key to Bill’s success as a 
negotiator and will be key to his work on the critical functions of the 
Commerce Department -- from administering our census and monitoring our 
climate to protecting our intellectual property and restoring our economic 
diplomacy.

In the end, Bill Richardson is a leader who shares my values, and he must 
-- and he will be measured his progress the same way I do. Are we creating 
good jobs instead of losing them? Are incomes growing instead of shrinking? 
I know Bill will be an unyielding advocate for American business and 
American jobs at home and around the world. And I look forward to working 
with him in the years ahead.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image Source: Change.gov 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Creative Commons License 3.0
 .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.