 

 

Barack Obama

Iowa Caucus Victory Speech

delivered 3 January 2008, Des Moines, Iowa

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you, Iowa.

You know, they said -- they said -- they said this day would never come.

They said our sights were set too high.

They said this country was too divided, too disillusioned to ever come 
together around a common purpose.

But on this January night, at this defining moment in history, you have 
done what the cynics said we couldn't do.

You have done what the state of New Hampshire can do in five days.

You have done what America can do in this new year, 2008.

In lines that stretched around schools and churches, in small towns and in 
big cities, you came together as Democrats, Republicans, and independents, 
to stand up and say that we are one nation. We are one people. And our time 
for change has come.

You said the time has come to move beyond the bitterness and pettiness and 
anger that's consumed Washington; to end the political strategy that's been 
all about division, and instead make it about addition; to build a 
coalition for change that stretches through red states and blue states; 
because that's how we'll win in November, and that's how we'll finally meet 
the challenges that we face as a nation.

We are choosing hope over fear. We're choosing unity over division, and 
sending a powerful message that change is coming to America.

You said the time has come to tell the lobbyists who think their money and 
their influence speak louder than our voices that they don't own this 
government -- we do. And we are here to take it back.

The time has come for a President who will be honest about the choices and 
the challenges we face, who will listen to you and learn from you, even 
when we disagree, who won't just tell you what you want to hear, but what 
you need to know.

And in New Hampshire, if you give me the same chance that Iowa did tonight, 
I will be that President for America.

I'll be a President who finally makes health care affordable and available 
to every single American, the same way I expanded health care in Illinois, 
by -- by bringing Democrats and Republicans together to get the job done.

I'll be a President who ends the tax breaks for companies that ship our 
jobs overseas and put a middle-class tax cut into the pockets of working 
Americans who deserve it.

I'll be a President who harnesses the ingenuity of farmers and scientists 
and entrepreneurs to free this nation from the tyranny of oil once and for 
all.

And I'll be a President who ends this war in Iraq
 and finally brings our 
troops home, who restores our moral standing, who understands that 9/11 is 
not a way to scare up votes but a challenge that should unite America and 
the world against the common threats of the 21st century -- common threats 
of terrorism and nuclear weapons, climate change and poverty, genocide and 
disease.

Tonight, we are one step closer to that vision of America because of what 
you did here in Iowa. And so I'd especially like to thank the organizers 
and the precinct captains, the volunteers and the staff who made this all 
possible.

And while I'm at it on thank you's, I think it makes sense for me to thank 
the love of my life, the rock of the Obama family, the closer on the 
campaign trail: Give it up for Michelle Obama.

I know you didn't do this for me. You did this -- You did this because you 
believed so deeply in the most American of ideas -- that in the face of 
impossible odds, people who love this country can change it.

I know this. I know this because while I may be standing here tonight, I'll 
never forget that my journey began on the streets of Chicago doing what so 
many of you have done for this campaign and all the campaigns here in Iowa: 
organizing and working and fighting to make people's lives just a little 
bit better.

I know how hard it is. It comes with little sleep, little pay, and a lot of 
sacrifice. There are days of disappointment. But sometimes, just sometimes, 
there are nights like this: a night -- a night that, years from now, when 
we've made the changes we believe in, when more families can afford to see 
a doctor, when our children -- when Malia and Sasha and your children 
inherit a planet that's a little cleaner and safer, when the world sees 
America differently, and America sees itself as a nation less divided and 
more united, you'll be able to look back with pride and say that this was 
the moment when it all began.

This was the moment when the improbable beat what Washington always said 
was inevitable.

This was the moment when we tore down barriers that have divided us for too 
long; when we rallied people of all parties and ages to a common cause; 
when we finally gave Americans who had never participated in politics a 
reason to stand up and to do so.

This was the moment when we finally beat back the poli[tics] of fear and 
doubt and cynicism, the politics where we tear each other down instead of 
lifting this country up. This was the moment.

Years from now, you'll look back and you'll say that this was the moment, 
this was the place where America remembered what it means to hope. For many 
months, we've been teased, even derided for talking about hope. But we 
always knew that hope is not blind optimism. It's not ignoring the enormity 
of the tasks ahead or the roadblocks that stand in our path.

It's not sitting on the sidelines or shirking from a fight. Hope is that 
thing inside us that insists, despite all the evidence to the contrary, 
that something better awaits us if we have the courage to reach for it and 
to work for it and to fight for it.

Hope is what I saw in the eyes of the young woman in Cedar Rapids who works 
the night shift after a full day of college and still can't afford health 
care for a sister who's ill -- a young woman who still believes that this 
country will give her the chance to live out her dreams.

Hope is what I heard in the voice of the New Hampshire woman who told me 
that she hasn't been able to breathe since her nephew left for Iraq -- who 
still goes to bed each night praying for his safe return.

Hope is what led a band of colonists to rise up against an empire, what led 
the greatest of generations to free a continent and heal a nation, what led 
young women and young men to sit at lunch counters and brave fire hoses and 
march through Selma and Montgomery for freedom's cause.

Hope -- Hope is what led me here today. With a father from Kenya, a mother 
from Kansas, and a story that could only happen in the United States of 
America.

Hope is the bedrock of this nation -- the belief that our destiny will not 
be written for us, but by us, by all those men and women who are not 
content to settle for the world as it is, who have the courage to remake 
the world as it should be.

That is what we started here in Iowa and that is the message we can now 
carry to New Hampshire and beyond; the same message we had when we were up 
and when we were down; the one that can save this country, brick by brick, 
block by block, calloused hand by calloused hand; that together, ordinary 
people can do extraordinary things.

Because we are not a collection of red states and blue states. We are the 
United States of America. And in this moment, in this election, we are 
ready to believe again.

Thank you, Iowa.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio and Image (Screenshot) Source: YouTube.com

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, image = Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.