 

 

Barack Obama

Address to the People of Berlin

delivered 24 July 2008, Victory Column

Audio mp3 of Address 

Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf   
 click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

*Thank you to the citizens of Berlin and -- and thank you to the people of 
Germany. Let me thank Chancellor Merkel and Foreign Minister Steinmeier for 
welcoming me earlier today. Thank you Mayor Wowereit, the Berlin Senate, 
the police, and most of all thanks to all of you for this extraordinary 
welcome. Thank you.*

I come to Berlin as so many of my countrymen have come before; although 
tonight, I speak to you not as a candidate for President, but as a citizen 
-- a proud citizen of the United States, and a fellow citizen of the world.

I know that I don’t look like the Americans who’ve previously spoken in 
this great city. The journey that led me here is improbable. My mother was 
born in the heartland of America, but my father grew up herding goats in 
Kenya. His father -- His father -- my grandfather -- was a cook, a domestic 
servant to the British.

At the height of the Cold War, my father decided, like so many others in 
the forgotten corners of the world, that his yearning -- his dream -- 
required the freedom and opportunity promised by the West. And so he wrote 
letter after letter to universities all across America until somebody, 
somewhere answered his prayer for a better life.

That is why I am here. And you are here because you too know that yearning. 
This city, of all cities, knows the dream of freedom. And you know that the 
only reason we stand here tonight is because men and women from both of our 
nations came together to work, and struggle, and sacrifice for that better 
life.

Ours is a partnership that truly began 60 years ago this summer, on the day 
when the first American plane touched down at Tempelhof
 . On that 
day -- On that day much of this continent still lay in ruin.  The rubble of 
this city had yet to be built into a wall. The Soviet shadow had swept 
across Eastern Europe, while in the West, America, Britain, and France took 
their stock of their losses, and pondered how the world might be remade.

This is where the two sides met. And on the twenty-fourth of June, 1948, 
the Communists chose to blockade the western part of the city. They cut off 
food and supplies to more than two million Germans in an effort to 
extinguish the last flame of freedom in Berlin.

The size of our forces was no match for the larger Soviet Army. And yet 
retreat would have allowed Communism to march across Europe. Where the last 
war had ended, another World War could have easily begun. And all that 
stood in the way was Berlin. And that’s when -- that's when the airlift 
began, when the largest and most unlikely rescue in the history brought 
food and hope to the people of this city.

The odds were stacked against success. In the winter, a heavy fog filled 
the sky above, and many planes were forced to turn back without dropping 
off the needed supplies. The streets where we stand were filled with hungry 
families who had no comfort from the cold.

But in the darkest hours, the people of Berlin kept the flame of hope 
burning. The people of Berlin refused to give up. And on one fall day, 
hundreds of thousands of Berliners came here, to the Tiergarten
 , and heard the city’s mayor 
implore the world not to give up on freedom. “There is only one 
possibility,” he said. “For us to stand together united until this battle 
is won…The people of Berlin have spoken. We have done our duty," he said, 
"and we will keep on doing our duty. People of the world, now do your duty. 
People of the world, look at Berlin.”

People of the world -- look at Berlin!

Look at Berlin, where Germans and Americans learned to work together and 
trust each other less than three years after facing each other on the field 
of battle.

Look at Berlin, where the determination of a people met the generosity of 
the Marshall Plan  and created a German miracle; 
where a -- where a victory over tyranny gave rise to NATO, the greatest 
alliance ever formed to defend our common security.

Look at Berlin, where the bullet holes in the buildings and the somber 
stones and pillars near the Brandenburg Gate
 insist that we never forget 
our common humanity.

People of the world -- look at Berlin, where a wall came down
 , a continent 
came together, and history proved that there is no challenge too great for 
a world that stands as one.

Sixty years after the airlift, we are called upon again. History has led us 
to a new crossroad, with new promise and new peril. When you, the German 
people, tore down that wall -- a wall that divided East and West; freedom 
and tyranny; fear and hope -- walls came tumbling down around the 
world. From Kiev to Cape Town, prison camps were closed, and the doors of 
democracy were opened. Markets opened too, and the spread of information 
and technology reduced barriers to opportunity and prosperity. While the 
20th century taught us that we share a common destiny, the 21st century has 
revealed a world more intertwined than at any time in human history.

The fall of the Berlin Wall brought new hope. But that very closeness has 
given rise to new dangers -- dangers that cannot be contained within the 
borders of a country or by the distance of an ocean.

Think about it: The terrorists of September 11th plotted in Hamburg and 
trained in Kandahar and Karachi before killing thousands from all over the 
globe on American soil. As we speak, cars in Boston and factories in 
Beijing are melting the ice caps in the Arctic, shrinking coastlines in the 
Atlantic, and bringing drought to farms from Kansas to Kenya.

Poorly secured nuclear material in the former Soviet Union, or secrets from 
a scientist in Pakistan could help build a bomb that detonates in Paris. 
The poppies in Afghanistan come to Berlin in the form of the heroin. The 
poverty and violence in Somalia breeds the terror of tomorrow. The 
genocide in Darfur  shames the conscience 
of us all.

In this new world, such dangerous currents have swept along faster than our 
efforts to contain them. And that is why we cannot afford to be divided. No 
one nation, no matter how large or powerful, can defeat such challenges 
alone. None of us can deny these threats, or escape responsi[bility] in 
meeting them. In the absence of Soviet tanks and a terrible wall, it has 
become easy to forget this truth. And if we’re honest with each other, we 
know that sometimes, on both sides of the Atlantic, we have drifted apart, 
and forgotten our shared destiny.

In Europe, the view that America is part of what has gone wrong in our 
world, rather than a force to help us make it right, has become all too 
common. In America, there are voices that deride and deny the importance of 
Europe’s role in our security and our future. Both views miss the truth: 
that Europeans today are bearing new burdens and taking more responsibility 
in critical parts of the world; and that just as American bases built in 
the last century still help to defend the security of this continent, so 
does our country still sacrifice greatly for freedom around the globe.

Yes, there have been differences between America and Europe. No doubt, 
there will be differences in the future. But the burdens of global 
citizenship continue to bind us together. A change of leadership in 
Washington will not lift this burden. In this new century, Americans and 
Europeans alike will be required to do more -- not less. Partnership and 
cooperation among nations is not a choice; it is the only way, the one way, 
to protect our common security and advance our common humanity.

That is why the greatest danger of all is to allow new walls to divide us 
from one another. The walls between old allies on either side of the 
Atlantic cannot stand. The walls between the countries with the most and 
those with the least cannot stand. The walls between races and tribes; 
natives and immigrants; Christians and Muslims and Jews cannot stand. These 
now are the walls we must tear down.

We know -- We know that these walls have fallen before. After centuries of 
strife, the people of Europe have formed a Union
 of promise and prosperity. 
Here, at the base of a column built to mark victory in war
 , we meet in the 
center of a Europe at peace. Not only have walls come down in Berlin, but 
they've come down in Belfast, where Protestant and Catholic found a way to 
live together; in the Balkans, where our Atlantic alliance ended wars and 
brought savage war criminals to justice; and in South Africa, where the 
struggle of a courageous people defeated apartheid.

So history reminds us that walls can be torn down. But the task is never 
easy. True partnership and true progress requires constant work and 
sustained sacrifice. They require sharing the burdens of development and 
diplomacy; of peace and progress. They require allies who will listen to 
each other, learn from each other and, most of all, trust each other.

That is why America cannot turn inward. That is why Europe cannot turn 
inward. America has no better partner than Europe. Now -- Now is the time 
to build new bridges across the globe as strong as the one that binds us 
across the Atlantic. Now is the time to join together, through constant 
cooperation and strong institutions and shared sacrifice and a global 
commitment to progress, to meet the challenges of the 21st century. It was 
this spirit that led airlift planes to appear in the sky above our heads, 
and people to assemble where we stand today. And this is the moment when 
our nations -- and all nations -- must summon that spirit anew.

This is the moment when we must defeat terror and dry up the well of 
extremism that supports it. This threat is real and we cannot shrink from 
our responsibility to combat it. If we could create NATO to face down the 
Soviet Union, we can join in a new and global partnership to dismantle the 
networks that have struck in Madrid and Amman; in London and Bali; in 
Washington and New York. If we could win a battle of ideas against the 
communists, we can stand with the vast majority of Muslims who reject the 
extremism that leads to hate instead of hope.

This is the moment when we must renew our resolve to rout the terrorists 
who threaten our security in Afghanistan, and the traffickers who sell 
drugs on your streets. No one welcomes war. I recognize the enormous 
difficulties in Afghanistan. But my country and yours have a stake in 
seeing that NATO’s first mission beyond Europe’s borders is a success. For 
the people of Afghanistan, and for our shared security, the work must be 
done. America can't do this alone.  The Afghan people need our troops and 
your troops; our support and your support to defeat the Taliban and al 
Qaeda, to develop their economy, and to help them rebuild their nation. We 
have too much at stake to turn back now.

This -- This is the moment when we must renew the goal of a world without 
nuclear weapons.  The two superpowers that faced each other across the wall 
of this city came too close too often to destroying all we have built and 
all that we love. With that wall gone, we need not stand idly by and watch 
the further spread of the deadly atom. It is time to secure all loose 
nuclear materials; to stop the spread of nuclear weapons; and to reduce the 
arsenals from another era. This is the moment to begin the work of seeking 
the peace of a world without nuclear weapons.

This is the moment when every nation in Europe must have the chance to 
choose its own tomorrow, free from the shadows of yesterday. In this 
century, we need a strong European Union that deepens the security and 
prosperity of this continent, while extending a hand abroad. In this 
century -- in this city of all cities -- we must reject the Cold War 
mind-set of the past, and resolve to work with Russia when we can, to stand 
up for our values when we must, and to seek a partnership that extends 
across this entire continent.

This is the moment when we must build on the wealth that opens [sic] 
markets have created, and share its benefits more equitably. Trade has been 
a cornerstone of our growth and global development. But we will not be able 
to sustain this growth if it favors the few, and not the many. Together -- 
Together we must forge trade that truly rewards the work that creates 
wealth, with meaningful protections for our people and our planet. This is 
the moment for trade that is free and fair for all.

This is the moment we must help answer the call for a new dawn in the 
Middle East. My country must stand with yours and with Europe in sending a 
direct message to Iran that it must abandon its nuclear ambitions. We must 
support the Lebanese who've marched and bled for democracy, and the 
Israelis and the Palestinians who seek a secure and lasting peace. And 
despite -- despite past differences, this is the moment when the world 
should support the millions of Iraqis who seek to rebuild their lives, even 
as we pass responsibility to the Iraqi government and finally bring this 
war to a close.

This -- This is the moment when we must come together to save this planet. 
Let us resolve that we will not leave our children to a world where the 
oceans rise and famine spreads and terrible storms devastate our lands. Let 
us resolve that all nations -- including my own -- will act with the same 
seriousness of purpose as has your nation, and reduce the carbon we send 
into our atmosphere. This -- This is the moment to give our children back 
their future. This is the moment to stand as one.

And this is the moment when we must give hope to those left behind in a 
globalized world. We must remember that the Cold War born in this city was 
not a battle for land or treasure. Sixty years ago, the planes that flew 
over Berlin did not drop bombs; instead they delivered food, and coal, and 
candy to grateful children. And in that show of solidarity, those pilots 
won more than a military victory. They won hearts and minds; love and 
loyalty and trust -- not just from the people in this city, but from all 
those who heard the story of what they did here.

Now the world will watch and remember what we do here -- what we do with 
this moment. Will we extend our hand to the people in the forgotten corners 
of this world who yearn for lives marked by dignity and opportunity, by 
security and justice? Will we lift the child in Bangladesh from poverty, 
and shelter the refugee in Chad, and banish the scourge of AIDS in our 
time?

Will we stand for the human rights of the dissident in Burma, the blogger 
in Iran, or the voter in Zimbabwe? Will we give meaning to the words “never 
again” in Darfur?

Will we acknowledge -- Will we acknowledge that there is no more powerful 
example than the one each of our nations projects to the world? Will we 
reject torture and stand for the rule of law? Will we -- Will we -- Will we 
welcome immigrants from different lands, and shun discrimination against 
those who don’t look like us or worship like we do, and keep the promise of 
equality and opportunity for all of our people?

People of Berlin -- people of the world -- this is our moment. This is our 
time.

I know my country has not perfected itself. At times, we’ve struggled to 
keep the promise of liberty and equality for all of our people. We’ve made 
our share of mistakes, and there are times when our actions around the 
world have not lived up to our best intentions.

But I also know how much I love America. I know that for more than two 
centuries, we have strived -- at great cost and great sacrifice -- to form 
a more perfect union  ; to seek, with other 
nations, a more hopeful world. Our allegiance has never been to any 
particular tribe or kingdom -- indeed, every language is spoken in our 
country; every culture has left its imprint on ours; every point of view is 
expressed in our public squares. What has always united us, what has always 
driven our people, what drew my father to America’s shores -- is a set of 
ideals that speak to aspirations shared by all people: that we can live 
free from fear and free from want; that we can speak our minds and assemble 
with whomever we choose and worship as we please.

These are the aspiration[s] that join the fates of all nations in this 
city. These aspirations are bigger than anything that drives us apart. It 
is because of these aspirations that the airlift began. It is because of 
these aspirations that all free people -- everywhere -- became citizens of 
Berlin  . It is in pursuit of these aspirations 
that a new generation -- our generation -- must make our mark on the world.

People of Berlin -- and people of the world -- the scale of our challenge 
is great. The road ahead will be long. But I come before you to say that we 
are heirs to a struggle for freedom. We are a people of improbable hope. 
With an eye toward the future, with resolve in our heart, let us remember 
this history, and answer our destiny, and remake the world once again.

Thank you, Berlin. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


* = Text within asterisks absent from this audio.

Also in this database: John F. Kennedy - Berlin Address


Copyright Status: Text = Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. Audio = 
Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-2011. 
American Rhetoric.