 

 

Barack Obama

Opening Remarks During First Press Conference as President-Elect

delivered 7 November 2008, Chicago, Illinois

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

This morning we woke up to more sobering news about the state of our 
economy. The 240,000 jobs lost in October marks the 10th consecutive month 
that our economy has shed jobs. In total, we've lost nearly 1.2 million 
jobs this year, and more than 10 million Americans are now unemployed. Tens 
of millions of families are struggling to figure out how to pay the bills 
and stay in their homes. Their stories are an urgent reminder that we are 
facing the greatest economic challenge of our lifetime, and we're going to 
have to act swiftly to resolve it.

Now, the United States has only one government and one President at a time, 
and until January 20th of next year, that government is the current 
Administration. I've spoken to President Bush. I appreciate his commitment 
to ensuring that his economic policy team keeps us fully informed as 
developments unfold. And I'm also thankful for his invitation to the White 
House.

Immediately after I become President, I'm going to confront this economic 
crisis head-on by taking all necessary steps to ease the credit crisis, 
help hardworking families, and restore growth and prosperity.

This morning I met with members of my Transition Economic Advisory Board
 , who are 
standing behind me, alongside my Vice President-elect, Joe Biden. They will 
help to guide the work of my transition team, working with Rahm Emanuel, my 
Chief of Staff, in developing a strong set of policies to respond to this 
crisis. We discussed in the earlier meeting several of the most immediate 
challenges facing our economy and key priorities on which to focus on in 
the days and weeks ahead.

First of all, we need a rescue plan for the middle class that invests in 
immediate efforts to create jobs and provide relief to families that are 
watching their paychecks shrink and their life savings disappear. A 
particularly urgent priority is a further extension of -- of unemployment 
insurance benefits for workers who cannot find work in the increasingly 
weak economy. A fiscal stimulus plan that will jump-start economic growth 
is long overdue. I've talked about it throughout this -- the last few 
months of the campaign. We should get it done.

Second, we have to address the spreading impact of the financial crisis on 
the other sectors of our economy -- small businesses that are struggling to 
meet their payrolls and finance their holiday inventories, and state and 
municipal governments facing devastating budget cuts and tax increases. We 
must also remember that the financial crisis is increasingly global and 
requires a global response.

The news coming out of the auto industry this week reminds us of the 
hardship it faces -- hardship that goes far beyond individual auto 
companies to the countless suppliers, small businesses, and communities 
throughout our nation who depend on a vibrant American auto industry. The 
auto industry is the backbone of American manufacturing and a critical part 
of our attempt to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.

I would like to see the Administration do everything it can to accelerate 
the retooling assistance that Congress has already enacted. In addition, I 
have made it a high priority for my transition team to work on additional 
policy options to help the auto industry adjust, weather the financial 
crisis, and succeed in producing fuel-efficient cars here in the United 
States of America. And I was glad to be joined today by Governor Jennifer 
Granholm  , who obviously 
has great knowledge and great interest on this issue. I've asked my team to 
explore what we can do under current law and whether additional legislation 
will be needed for this purpose.

Third, we will review the implementation of this Administration's financial 
program to ensure that the government's efforts are achieving their central 
goal of stabilizing financial markets while protecting taxpayers, helping 
homeowners, and not unduly rewarding the management of financial firms that 
are receiving government assistance. It is absolutely critical that the 
Treasury work closely with the FDIC, HUD, and other government agencies to 
use the substantial authority that they already have to help families avoid 
foreclosure and stay in their homes.

Finally, as we monitor and address these immediate economic challenges, we 
will be moving forward in laying out a set of policies that will grow our 
middle class and strengthen our economy in the long term. We cannot afford 
to wait on moving forward on the key priorities that I identified during 
the campaign, including clean energy, health care, education, and tax 
relief for middle-class families. My transition team will be working on 
each of these priorities in the weeks ahead, and I intend to reconvene this 
advisory board to discuss the best ideas for responding to these immediate 
problems.

Let me close by saying this: I do not underestimate the enormity of the 
task that lies ahead. We have taken some major action to date, and we will 
need further action during this transition and subsequent months. Some of 
the choices that we make are going to be difficult. And I have said before 
and I will repeat again: It is not going to be quick and it is not going to 
be easy for us to dig ourselves out of the hole that we are in, but America 
is a strong and resilient country. And I know we will succeed if we put 
aside partisanship and politics and work together as one nation. That's 
what I intend to do.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio Source: Change.gov 

Copyright Status: Text = Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. Audio = 
Creative Commons License 3.0  
.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.