 

 

Barack Obama

Recorded Remarks to Global Climate Summit

First Broadcast 18 November 2008

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Let me begin by thanking the bipartisan group of U.S. Governors who 
convened this meeting.

Few challenges facing America -- and the world -- are more urgent than 
combating climate change. The science is beyond dispute and the facts are 
clear. Sea levels are rising. Coastlines are shrinking. We’ve seen record 
drought, spreading famine, and storms that are growing stronger with each 
passing hurricane season.

Climate change and our dependence on foreign oil, if left unaddressed, will 
continue to weaken our economy and threaten our national security.

I know many of you are working to confront this challenge. In particular, I 
want to commend Governor Sebelius, Governor Doyle, Governor Crist, Governor 
Blagojevich and your host, Governor Schwarzenegger. All of you have shown 
true leadership in the fight to combat global warming. And we’ve also seen 
a number of businesses doing their part by investing in clean energy 
technologies.

But too often, Washington has failed to show the same kind of leadership. 
That will change when I take office. My presidency will mark a new chapter 
in America’s leadership on climate change that will strengthen our security 
and create millions of new jobs in the process. That will start with a 
federal cap and trade system. We'll establish strong annual targets that 
set us on a course to reduce emissions to their 1990 levels by 2020 and 
reduce them an additional 80% by 2050. Further, we'll invest 15 billion 
dollars each year to catalyze private sector efforts to build a clean 
energy future. We'll invest in solar power, wind power, and next-generation 
biofuels. We'll tap nuclear power, while making sure it’s safe; and we'll 
develop clean coal technologies.

This investment will not only help us reduce our dependence on foreign oil, 
making the United States more secure; and it will not only help us bring 
about a clean energy future, saving the planet. It will also help us 
transform our industries and steer our country out of this economic crisis 
by generating five million new green jobs that pay well and can’t be 
outsourced.

The truth is, the United States can't meet this challenge alone. Solving 
this problem will require all of us working together. I understand that 
your meeting is being attended by government officials from over a dozen 
countries, including the UK, Canada, Mexico, Brazil and Chile, Poland and 
Australia, India and Indonesia. And I look forward to working with all 
nations to meet this challenge in the coming years.

Let me also say a special word to the delegates from around the world who 
will gather at Poland next month. Your work is vital to the planet. While I 
won’t be President at the time of your meeting and while the United States 
has only one President at a time, I’ve asked Members of Congress who are 
attending the conference as observers to report back to me on what they 
learn there. And once I take office, you can be sure that the United States 
will once again engage vigorously in these negotiations, and help lead the 
world toward a new era of global cooperation on climate change.

Now is the time to confront this challenge once and for all. Delay is no 
longer an option. Denial is no longer an acceptable response. The stakes 
are too high; the consequences too serious. Stopping climate change won’t 
be easy and it won’t happen overnight. But I promise you this: When I am 
President, any governor who’s willing to promote clean energy will have a 
partner in the White House. Any company that’s willing to invest in clean 
energy will have an ally in Washington. And any nation that’s willing to 
join the cause of combating climate change will have an ally in the United 
States of America.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Further Information: http://site.governorsglobalclimatesummit.org


Copyright Status: This text = Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. Audio = 
Uncertain. Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.