 

 

Barack Obama

Nomination of Key Members of Management and Budget Office Leadership

Delivered 25 November 2008, Chicago, Illinois

Audio mp3 of Address (Press Q&A Added)


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Please be seated. Good morning, everybody.

Yesterday we talked about the need to jump-start our economy
 . I speak to you today, mindful 
that we meet at a moment of great challenge for America, as our credit 
markets are stressed, and our families are struggling. But as difficult as 
these times are, I’m confident that we're going to rise to meet this 
challenge -- if we’re willing to band together and recognize that Wall 
Street cannot thrive so long as Main Street is struggling; if we’re willing 
to summon a new spirit of ingenuity and determination; and if Americans of 
great intellect, broad experience, and good character are willing to serve 
in our government at its hour of need.

Yesterday, I announced four such Americans to help lead the economic team 
that will advise me as we seek to climb out of this crisis. Today, I'm 
pleased to announce two other key members of our team: Peter Orszag
 as Director, and Robert 
Nabors  as Deputy Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget.

Before I explain why I selected these outstanding public servants, let me 
say a few words about the work that I'm asking them to undertake. As I said 
yesterday, the economic crisis we face demands that we invest immediately 
in a series of measures that will help save or create two and a half 
million jobs and put tax cuts in the pockets of the hard-pressed middle 
class. Many of those new jobs will come in areas such as energy 
independence, technology, and health care modernization that will 
strengthen our economy over the long term.

But if we are going to make the investments we need, we also have to be 
willing to shed the spending that we don’t need. In these challenging 
times, when we're facing both rising deficits and a shrinking economy, 
budget reform is not an option; it's a necessity. We can't sustain a system 
that bleeds billions of taxpayer dollars on programs that have outlived 
their usefulness, or exist solely because of the power of politicians, 
lobbyists, or interest groups. We simply can't afford it.

This isn’t about big government or small government. It’s about building a 
smarter government that focuses on what works. That's why I will ask my new 
team to think anew and act anew to meet our new challenges. We are going to 
go through our federal budget, as I promised during the campaign -- page by 
page, line by line -- eliminating those programs we don’t need, and 
insisting that those that we do need operate in a sensible, cost-effective 
way.

Let me just give you one example of what I’m talking about. There’s a 
report today from -- that from 2003 to 2006, millionaire farmers received 
49 million dollars in crop subsidies even though they were earning more 
than the 2.5 million cutoff for such subsidies. Now, if this is true -- and 
this was just a report this morning -- but if it's true, it is a prime 
example of the kind of waste that I intend to end as President.

We're also going to focus on one of the biggest, long-run challenges that 
our budget faces -- namely, the rising cost of health care in both the 
public and private sectors. This is not just a challenge but also an 
opportunity to improve the health care that Americans rely on and to bring 
down the costs that taxpayers, businesses, and families have to pay.

Now, that's what the Office of Management and Budget will do in my 
Administration. It will not only help design a budget and manage its 
implementation, but it's also going to make sure that our government -- 
your government -- is more efficient and more effective at serving the 
American people.

And there is no better person to help lead this effort as Director of the 
OMB than my friend Peter Orszag. Peter's been one of our nation’s leading 
voices on budgetary issues. It's said that a nation’s budget reflects its 
values and its priorities. I believe that's true. And I know that Peter 
will bring to his work at the OMB a set of priorities that I -- and the 
American people -- share.

Throughout his career, he's made significant contributions in our 
understanding of all the major economic challenges that we're now 
confronting -- from reducing medical costs to saving Social Security to 
fighting global climate change to helping put the dream of a college degree 
within the reach for more students. As Director of the Congressional Budget 
Office, he reenergized and reinvigorated the agency, while shifting its 
focus to confront the health care crisis that is not only a cause of so 
much suffering for so many families, but a rapidly growing portion of our 
budget and a drag on our entire economy.

But it's not simply that Peter’s past career makes him qualified for this 
new appointment; it's also that he has a vision for the future that I 
share. He believes, as I do, that even as we take steps to restore 
discipline to our budget, we also have to take -- take the steps right now 
that are necessary to solve our immediate crisis. Peter doesn’t need a map 
to tell him where the bodies are buried in the federal budget. He knows 
what works and what doesn’t, what's worthy of our precious tax dollars and 
what is not. Just because a program, a special interest tax break, or 
corporate subsidy is hidden in this year’s budget, does not mean that it 
will survive the next. The old ways of Washington simply can’t meet the 
challenges of today and tomorrow.

And no one's more able or more qualified to assist Peter in this work than 
Deputy Director of the OMB that I am nominating, Robert Nabors. Rob will 
bring to this post experience in the Executive Branch, at the OMB, where he 
helped the Clinton Administration achieve balanced budgets, as well as in 
the Legislative Branch, where he led the Appropriations Committee staff as 
a driving force for a responsible budget. Together, Peter and Rob will help 
steer our budget through Congress so that I can sign it into law.

Now, let me be clear: These appointments, as well as the appointments that 
I announced yesterday, are not the sum of my economic team. These 
appointments are going to work closely with those that I have not ye[t] 
announced -- those including the secretaries of Energy and Labor, Commerce, 
and Health and Human Services, as well as others in my Administration -- to 
design a recovery path for both Wall Street and Main Street, and to put our 
economy on a path to long-term growth and prosperity.

Because at this moment, we must not only restore confidence in our markets. 
We also must restore the confidence of middle class families that their 
government is on their side, that it’s working for them and on their behalf 
to meet their families’ needs.

That's what I intend to do as President of the United States.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Research Note: Press Q&A not transcribed.

Audio Source: Change.gov 

Copyright Status: Creative Commons License 3.0
 .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.