 

 

Barack Obama

Democratic Nomination Victory Speech

delivered 3 June 2008, Saint Paul, Minnesota

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf   
 click for 
flash 

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you....Thank you. What a -- What a wonderful reception. Thank you, 
Saint Paul. Thank you, Minnesota.

Thank you, JoAnn Syverson
 , for the 
wonderful introduction.

Thank you, Michelle Obama and Malia Obama and Sasha Obama. Thank you to my 
brothers and sisters. Thank you to -- Thank you to my staff. Thank you to 
our volunteers. Thank you to my political team. Thank you to our campaign 
manager, David Plouffe  , who 
never gets any credit, but has built the best political organization in the 
country.

Thank you to my grandmother, who helped raise me, and is sitting in Hawaii 
somewhere right now because she can't travel, but who poured everything she 
had into me, and who helped to make me the man I am today. Tonight is for 
her.

Tonight, Minnesota, after 54 hard-fought contests, our primary season has 
finally come to an end. Sixteen -- Sixteen months have passed since we 
first stood together on the steps of the Old State Capitol
 in Springfield, Illinois. Thousands 
of miles have been traveled; millions of voices have been heard.

And because of what you said, because you decided that change must come to 
Washington, because you believed that this year must be different than all 
the rest, because -- because you chose to listen not to your doubts or your 
fears, but to your greatest hopes and highest aspirations, tonight we mark 
the end of one historic journey with the beginning of another, a journey -- 
a journey that will bring a new and better day to America.

Because of you, tonight I can stand here and say that I will be the 
Democratic nominee for the President of the United States of America.

I want to -- I want to thank -- I want to thank -- I want to thank all 
those in Montana and South Dakota who stood up for change today. I want to 
thank every American who stood with us over the course of this campaign, 
through the good days and the bad, from the snows of Cedar Rapids to the 
sunshine of Sioux Falls.

And, tonight, I also want to thank the men and woman who took this journey 
with me as fellow candidates for President. You know, at this defining 
moment -- At this defining moment for our nation, we should be proud that 
our Party put forth one of the most talented, qualified field of 
individuals ever to run for office. I have not just competed with them as 
rivals. I’ve learned from them as friends, as public servants, and as 
patriots who love America and are willing to work tirelessly to make this 
country better. They are leaders of this Party and leaders that America 
will turn to for years to come.

And that is particularly true for the candidate who has traveled further on 
this journey than anyone else: Senator Hillary Clinton has made history in 
this campaign. She has made history not -- not just because she’s a woman 
who has done what no woman has done before, but because she is a leader who 
inspires millions of Americans with her strength, her courage, and her 
commitment to the causes that brought us here tonight. I congratulate her 
on her victory in South Dakota, and I congratulate her on the race that she 
has run throughout this contest.

We’ve certainly had our differences over the last 16 months. But as someone 
who’s shared a stage with her many times, I can tell you that what gets 
Hillary Clinton up in the morning -- even in the face of tough odds -- is 
exactly what sent her and Bill Clinton to sign up for their first campaign 
in Texas all those years ago, what sent her to work at the Children’s 
Defense Fund and made her fight for health care as first lady, what led her 
to the United States Senate and fueled her barrier-breaking campaign for 
the presidency: an unyielding desire to improve the lives of ordinary 
Americans, no matter how difficult the fight may be.

And you can rest assured that when we finally win the battle for universal 
health care in this country -- and we will win that fight -- she will be 
central to that victory. When we transform our energy policy and lift our 
children out of poverty, it will be because she worked to help make it 
happen. Our Party and our country are better off because of her, and I am a 
better candidate for having had the honor to compete with Hillary Rodham 
Clinton.

There are those who say that this primary has somehow left us weaker and 
more divided. Well, I say that, because of this primary, there are millions 
of Americans who've cast their ballot for the very first time. There are -- 
There are Independents and Republicans who understand this election isn’t 
just about a change of Party in Washington, but also about the need to 
change Washington. There are -- There are young people, and 
African-Americans, and Hispanic-Americans, and women of all ages who have 
voted in numbers that have broken records and inspired a nation.

All of you chose to support a candidate you believe in deeply. But at the 
end of the day, we aren’t the reason you came out and waited in lines that 
stretched block after block to make your voice heard. You didn’t do that -- 
You didn’t do that because of me or Senator Clinton or anyone else. You did 
it because you know in your hearts that at this moment, a moment that will 
define a generation, we cannot afford to keep doing what we’ve been doing. 
We owe our children a better future. We owe our country a better future. 
And for all those who dream of that future tonight, I say: Let us begin the 
work together. Let us unite in common effort to chart a new course for 
America.

In just -- In just a few short months, the Republican Party will arrive in 
St. Paul with a very different agenda. They will -- They will come here to 
nominate John McCain, a man who has served this country heroically. I 
honor, we honor the service of John McCain, and I respect his many 
accomplishments, even if he chooses to deny mine. My -- My differences with 
him -- My differences with him are not personal. They are with the policies 
he has proposed in this campaign, because while John McCain can 
legitimately tout moments of independence from his Party in the past, such 
independence has not been the hallmark of his presidential campaign.

It’s not change when John McCain decided to stand with George Bush 95 
percent of the time, as he did in the Senate last year.

It’s not change when he offers four more years of Bush economic policies 
that have failed to create well-paying jobs, or insure our workers, or help 
Americans afford the skyrocketing cost of college, policies that have 
lowered the real incomes of the average American family, and widened the 
gap between Wall Street and Main Street, and left our children with a 
mountain of debt.

It’s not change when he promises to continue a policy in Iraq that asks 
everything of our brave men and women in uniform and nothing of Iraqi 
politicians, a policy where all we look for are reasons to stay in Iraq, 
while we spend billions of dollars a month on a war that isn’t making the 
American people any safer. So -- So, I’ll say this: There are many words to 
describe John McCain’s attempt to pass off his embrace of George Bush’s 
policies as bipartisan and new, but “change” is not one of them. “Change” 
is not one of them, because change is a foreign policy that doesn’t begin 
and end with a war that should’ve never been authorized and never been 
waged.

I won’t stand here and pretend that there are many good options left in 
Iraq, but what’s not an option is leaving our troops in that country for 
the next hundred years, especially at a time when our military is 
overstretched, our nation is isolated, and nearly every other threat to 
America is being ignored. We -- We must be -- We must be as careful getting 
out of Iraq as we were careless getting in, but we -- but start leaving we 
must. It’s time for Iraqis to take responsibility for their future. It’s 
time to rebuild our military and give our veterans the care and the 
benefits they deserve when they come home.

It’s time -- It's time to refocus our efforts on Al Qaida’s leadership and 
Afghanistan, and rally the world against the common threats of the 21st 
century: terrorism and nuclear weapons, climate change and poverty, 
genocide and disease. That’s what change is.

Change -- Change, Minnesota, is realizing that meetings [sic] today’s 
threats requires not just our firepower, but the power of our diplomacy: 
tough -- tough, direct diplomacy, where the President of the United States 
isn’t afraid to let any petty dictator know where America stands and what 
we stand for. We must once again have the courage and the conviction to 
lead the free world. That is the legacy of Roosevelt and Truman and 
Kennedy. That’s what the American people demand. That’s what change is.

Change is building an economy that rewards not just wealth, but the work 
and the workers who created it. It’s understanding that the struggles 
facing working families can’t be solved by spending billions of dollars on 
more tax breaks for big corporations and wealthy CEOs, but by giving a 
middle-class tax break to those who need it, and investing in our crumbling 
infrastructure, and transforming how we use energy, and improving our 
schools, and renewing our commitment to science and innovation. It’s 
understanding that fiscal responsibility and shared prosperity can go 
hand-in-hand, as they did when Bill Clinton was President.

John McCain has spent a lot of time talking about trips to Iraq in the last 
few weeks, but maybe if he spent some time taking trips to the cities and 
towns that have been hardest hit by this economy -- cities in Michigan, and 
Ohio, and right here in Minnesota -- he’d understand the kind of change 
that people are looking for.

Maybe if he went to Iowa and met the student who works the night shift 
after a full day of class and still can’t pay the medical bills for a 
sister who’s ill, he’d understand she can’t afford four more years of a 
health care plan that only takes care of the healthy and the wealthy. She 
needs us to pass health care right now, a plan that guarantees insurance to 
every American who wants it and brings down premiums for every family who 
needs it. That’s the change we need, Minnesota.

Maybe -- Maybe if John McCain went to Pennsylvania and he met the man who 
lost his job, but can’t even afford the gas to drive around and look for a 
new one, he’d understand we can’t afford four more years of our addiction 
to oil from dictators. That man needs us to pass an energy policy that 
works with automakers to raise fuel standards, and makes corporations pay 
for their pollution, and oil companies invest their record profits in a 
clean energy future, an energy policy that will create millions of new jobs 
that pay well and can’t be outsourced. That’s the change we need, 
Minnesota.

And maybe if John McCain spent some time in the schools of South Carolina 
or St. Paul, Minnesota, or where he spoke tonight in New Orleans, Louisiana
 , he’d understand that we can’t 
afford to leave the money behind for No Child Left Behind
 ; that we owe it to 
our children to invest in early-childhood education; and recruit an army of 
new teachers and give them better pay and more support; and finally decide 
that, in this global economy, the chance to get a college education should 
not be a privilege for the few, but a birthright of every American. That’s 
the change we need in America. That’s why I’m running for President of the 
United States.

Now -- Now, the other side will come here in September and offer a very 
different set of policies and positions, and that is a good thing. That is 
a debate I look forward to. It is a debate that the American people deserve 
on the issues that will help determine the future of this country and the 
future for our children. But what you don’t deserve is another election 
that’s governed by fear, and innuendo, and division. What you won’t hear 
from this campaign or this Party is the kind of politics that uses religion 
as a wedge and patriotism as a bludgeon. What you won’t see from this 
campaign or this Party is a politics that sees our opponents not as 
competitors to challenge, but enemies to polarize, because we may call 
ourselves Democrats and Republicans, but we are Americans first. We are 
always Americans first.

Despite -- Despite what the good senator from Arizona may have said 
tonight, I’ve seen people of differing views and opinions find common cause 
many times during my two decades in public life, and I’ve brought many 
together myself. I’ve walked arm-in-arm with community leaders on the south 
side of Chicago and watched tensions fade as black and white and Latino 
fought together for good jobs and good schools. I’ve sat across the table 
from law enforcement officials and civil rights advocates to reform a 
criminal justice system that sent 13 innocent people to death row. I’ve 
worked with friends in the other Party to provide more children with health 
insurance and more working families with a tax break, to curb the spread of 
nuclear weapons and ensure that the American people know where their tax 
dollars are being spent, and to reduce the influence of lobbyists who have 
all too often set the agenda in Washington.

In our country -- In our country, I have found that this cooperation 
happens not because we agree on everything, but because, behind all the 
false labels and false divisions and categories that define us, beyond all 
the petty bickering and point-scoring in Washington, Americans are a 
decent, generous, compassionate people, united by common challenges and 
common hopes.

And every so often, there are moments which call on that fundamental 
goodness to make this country great again. So it was for that band of 
patriots who declared in a Philadelphia hall the formation of a more 
perfect union, and for all those who gave on the fields of Gettysburg and 
Antietam their last full measure of devotion to save that same union. So it 
was for the greatest generation that conquered fear itself
 , and liberated a continent from tyranny, and made 
this country home to untold opportunity and prosperity. So it was for the 
workers who stood out on the picket lines, the women who shattered glass 
ceilings, the children who braved a Selma bridge for freedom’s cause. So it 
has been for every generation that faced down the greatest challenges and 
the most improbable odds to leave their children a world that’s better and 
kinder and more just.

And so it must be for us.

America, this is our moment. This is our time, our time to turn the page on 
the policies of the past, our time to bring new energy and new ideas to the 
challenges we face, our time to offer a new direction for this country that 
we love.

The journey will be difficult. The road will be long. I face this challenge 
-- I face this challenge with profound humility and knowledge of my own 
limitations, but I also face it with limitless faith in the capacity of the 
American people.

Because if we are willing to work for it, and fight for it, and believe in 
it, then I am absolutely certain that, generations from now, we will be 
able to look back and tell our children that this was the moment when we 
began to provide care for the sick and good jobs to the jobless.

This was the moment when the rise of the oceans began to slow and our 
planet began to heal.

This was the moment when we ended a war, and secured our nation, and 
restored our image as the last, best hope  on Earth.

This was the moment, this was the time when we came together to remake this 
great nation so that it may always reflect our very best selves and our 
highest ideals.

Thank you, Minnesota. God bless you.

God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio Source: C-SPAN.org 

Copyright Status: Text, Audio = Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-2011. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.