 

 

Barack Obama

Announces Nominations of Key Economic Team Members

Delivered 24 November 2008, Chicago, Illinois

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf  
   click 
for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

The news this past week, including this morning’s news about Citigroup, has 
made it even more clear that we are facing an economic crisis of historic 
proportions. Our financial markets are under stress. New home purchases in 
October were the lowest in half-a-century. Recently, more than 
half-a-million jobless claims were filed, the highest in 18 years. And if 
we do not act swiftly and boldly, most experts now believe that we could 
lose millions of jobs next year.

While we can’t underestimate the challenges that we face, we also can’t 
underestimate our capacity to overcome them, to summon that spirit of 
determination and optimism that has always defined us, and to move forward 
in a new direction to create new jobs, reform our financial system, and 
fuel long-term economic growth.

We know this won’t be easy, and it won’t happen overnight. We’ll need to 
bring together the best minds in America to guide us, and that is what I’ve 
sought to do in assembling my economic team. I’ve sought leaders who could 
offer both sound judgment and fresh thinking, both a depth of experience 
and a wealth of bold, new ideas, and most of all who share my fundamental 
belief that we cannot have a thriving Wall Street without a thriving Main 
Street, that in this country we rise or fall as one nation, as one people.

Today, Vice President-elect Biden and I are pleased to announce the 
nomination of four individuals who meet these criteria to lead our economic 
team: Timothy Geithner  
, as secretary of treasury
 ; 
Lawrence Summers  , as the 
director of our National Economic Council
 ; Christina Romer
 , as chair of the Council of 
Economic Advisers
 ; and Melody 
Barnes  , as director of 
domestic -- the Domestic Policy Council  .

Having served in senior roles at Treasury, the IMF
 , and the New York Fed
 , Tim Geithner offers not just 
extensive experience shaping economic policy and managing financial 
markets, he also has an unparalleled understanding of our current economic 
crisis in all of its depth, complexity, and urgency. Tim will waste no time 
getting up to speed. He will start his first day on the job with a unique 
insight into the failures of today’s markets and a clear vision of the 
steps we must take to revive them. The reality is that the economic crisis 
we face is no longer just an American crisis; it’s a global crisis. And we 
will need to reach out to countries around the world to craft a global 
response. Tim’s extensive international experience makes him uniquely 
suited to do that work.

Growing up partly in Africa and having lived and worked throughout Asia, 
having served as undersecretary of the treasury for international affairs, 
one of the many roles in the international arena, and having studied both 
Chinese and Japanese, Tim understands the language of today’s international 
markets in more ways than one. Tim served with distinction under both 
Democrats and Republicans and has a long history of working comfortably and 
as an honest broker on both sides of the aisle. With stellar performances 
and outstanding results at every stage of his career, Tim has earned the 
confidence and respect of business, financial, and community leaders, 
members of Congress, and political leaders around the world. And I know he 
will do so once again as America’s next treasury secretary, the chief 
economic spokesman for my Administration.

Now, like Tim, Larry Summers also brings a singular combination of skill, 
intellect, and experience to the role he will play in our Administration. 
As undersecretary, deputy secretary, and then secretary of the treasury, 
Larry helped guide us through several major international financial crises 
and was a central architect of the policies that led to the longest 
economic expansion in American history, with record surpluses, rising 
family incomes, and more than 20 million new jobs. He also championed a 
range of measures, from tax credits to enhanced lending programs to 
consumer financial protections, that greatly benefited middle-income 
families.

As a thought leader, Larry has urged us to confront the problems of income 
inequality and the middle-class squeeze, consistently arguing that the key 
to a strong economy is a strong, vibrant, growing middle class. This idea 
is at the core of my own economic philosophy and will be the foundation of 
all of my economic policies.

And as one of the great economic minds of our time, Larry has earned a 
global reputation for being able to cut to the heart of the most complex 
and novel policy challenges. With respect to both our current financial 
crisis and other pressing economic issues of our time, his thinking, 
writing, and speaking have set the terms of the debate. I’m glad he will be 
by my side, playing the critical role of coordinating my Administration’s 
economic policy in the White House, and I will rely heavily on his advice 
as we navigate the uncharted waters of this economic crisis.

As one of the most expert people in America on economic crises and how to 
solve them, my next nominee, Christina Romer, will bring a critically 
needed perspective to her work as chair of my Council of Economic Advisors. 
Christina is both a leading -- both a leading macroeconomist and a leading 
economic historian, perhaps best known for her work on America’s recovery 
from the Great Depression and the robust economic expansion that followed.

Since 2003, she’s been co-director of the National Bureau of Economic 
Research Monetary Economics program. She’s also a member of the bureau’s 
Business Cycle Dating Committee, the body charged with officially 
determining whether a recession has started and ended, experience which 
will serve her well as she advises me on our current economic challenges. 
Christina has done groundbreaking research on many of the topics our 
Administration will confront, from tax policy to fighting recessions. And 
her clear-eyed, independent analyses have received praise from both 
conservative and liberal thinkers alike. I look forward to her wise counsel 
in the White House.

Finally, we know that rebuilding our economy will require action on a great 
variety of fronts: from education and health care to energy and Social 
Security. Without sound policies in these areas, we can neither enjoy 
sustained economic growth nor realize our full potential as a people. So I 
am extraordinarily pleased that Melody Barnes, one of the most respected 
policy experts in America, will serve as my director of domestic -- the 
Domestic Policy Council, and that she will be working hand in hand with my 
economic policy team to chart a course to economic recovery. An integral 
part of that course will be health care reform, and she will work closely 
with my secretary of health and human services on that issue.

As executive vice president for policy at the Center of -- at the Center 
for American Progress
 , Melody 
directed a network of policy experts dedicated to finding solutions for 
struggling middle-class families. She also served as chief counsel to the 
great Senator Ted Kennedy on the state -- Senate Judiciary Committee, 
working on issues ranging from crime to immigration to bankruptcy, and 
fighting tirelessly to protect civil rights, women’s rights, and religious 
freedom. Melody’s brilliant legal mind and her long experience working to 
secure the liberties on which this nation was founded, as well as to secure 
the opportunities for those who’ve been left behind, make her a perfect fit 
for DPC director.

I'm grateful that Tim, Larry, Christina, and Melody have accepted my 
nomination, and I am looking forward to working closely with them in the 
months ahead. That work starts today, because the truth is, we do not have 
a minute to waste. Right now, our economy is trapped in a vicious cycle: 
The turmoil on Wall Street means a new round of belt-tightening for 
families and businesses on Main Street, and as folks produce less and 
consume less, that just deepens the problems in our financial markets. 
These extraordinary stresses on our financial system require extraordinary 
policy responses. And my Administration will honor the public commitments 
made by the current Administration to address this crisis.

Further, beyond any immediate actions we may take, we need a recovery plan 
for both Wall Street and Main Street, a plan that stabilizes our financial 
system and gets credit flowing again, while at the same time addressing our 
growing foreclosure crisis, helping our struggling auto industry, and 
creating and saving 2.5 million jobs, jobs rebuilding our infrastructure, 
our roads, our bridges, modernizing our schools, and creating the clean 
energy infrastructure of the 21st century. Because at this moment, we need 
to restore both confidence in the markets and restore confidence of 
middle-class families, who find themselves working harder, earning less, 
and falling further and further behind.

I’ve asked my economic team to develop recommendations for this plan and to 
consult with Congress, the current Administration, and the Federal Reserve 
on immediate economic developments over the next two months. I’ve requested 
that they brief me on these matters on a daily basis. And in the coming 
weeks, I will provide the American people and the incoming Congress with an 
overview of their initial recommendations. It is my hope that the new 
Congress will begin work on an aggressive economic recovery plan when they 
convene in early January so that our Administration can hit the ground 
running.

With our economy in distress, we cannot hesitate and we cannot delay. Our 
families can’t afford to keep on waiting and hoping for a solution. They 
can’t afford to watch another month of unpaid bills pile up, another 
semester of tuition slip out of reach, another month where, instead of 
saving for retirement, they’re dipping into their savings just to get by. 
And I want to repeat: This will not be easy. There are no shortcuts or 
quick fixes to this crisis, which has been many years in the making, and 
the economy is likely to get worse before it gets better. Full recovery 
will not happen immediately. And to make the investments we need, we’ll 
have to scour our federal budget, line by line, and make meaningful cuts 
and sacrifices, as well, something I’ll be discussing further tomorrow
 .

Despite all of this, I am hopeful about the future. I have full confidence 
in the wisdom and ingenuity of my economic team and in the hard work, 
courage, and sacrifice of the American people. And most of all, I believe 
deeply in the resilience and the spirit of this nation. I know we can work 
our way out of this crisis because we’ve done it before. And I know we will 
succeed once again if we put aside partisanship and politics and work 
together.

That’s exactly what I intend to do as President of the United States.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio Source: Change.gov 

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Creative Commons License 3.0
 .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.