 

 

Barack Obama

New Hampshire Primary Concession Speech

delivered 8 January 2008, Nashua, New Hampshire

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address



Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

Thank you. Thank you, New Hampshire. I love you back. Thank you. Thank you. 
Well, thank you so much. I am still fired up and ready to go. Thank you. 
Thank you.

Well, first of all, I want to congratulate Senator Clinton on a hard-fought 
victory here in New Hampshire. She did an outstanding job. Give her a big 
round of applause.

You know, a few weeks ago, no one imagined that we'd have accomplished what 
we did here tonight in New Hampshire. No one could have imagined it. For 
most of this campaign, we were far behind. We always knew our climb would 
be steep. But in record numbers, you came out, and you spoke up for change. 
And with your voices and your votes, you made it clear that at this moment, 
in this election, there is something happening in America.

There is something happening when men and women in Des Moines and 
Davenport, in Lebanon and Concord, come out in the snows of January to wait 
in lines that stretch block after block because they believe in what this 
country can be.

There is something happening. There's something happening when Americans 
who are young in age and in spirit, who've never participated in politics 
before, turn out in numbers we have never seen because they know in their 
hearts that this time must be different.

There's something happening when people vote not just for party that they 
belong to, but the hopes that they hold in common.

And whether we are rich or poor, black or white, Latino or Asian, whether 
we hail from Iowa or New Hampshire, Nevada or South Carolina, we are ready 
to take this country in a fundamentally new direction. That's what's 
happening in America right now; change is what's happening in America.

Our new American majority can end the outrage of unaffordable, unavailable 
health care in our time. We can bring doctors and patients, workers and 
businesses, Democrats and Republicans together, and we can tell the drug 
and insurance industry that, while they get a seat at the table, they don't 
get to buy every chair, not this time, not now.

Our new majority can end the tax breaks for corporations that ship our jobs 
overseas and put a middle-class tax cut in the pockets of working Americans 
who deserve it. We can stop sending our children to schools with corridors 
of shame and start putting them on a pathway to success. We can stop 
talking about how great teachers are and start rewarding them for their 
greatness by giving them more pay and more support. We can do this with our 
new majority. We can harness the ingenuity of farmers and scientists, 
citizens and entrepreneurs to free this nation from the tyranny of oil and 
save our planet from a point of no return.

And when I am President of the United States, we will end this war in Iraq 
and bring our troops home. We will end this war in Iraq. We will bring our 
troops home. We will finish the job -- We will finish the job against 
al-Qaida in Afghanistan. We will care for our veterans. We will restore our 
moral standing in the world. And we will never use 9/11 as a way to scare 
up votes, because it is not a tactic to win an election. It is a challenge 
that should unite America and the world against the common threats of the 
21st century: terrorism and nuclear weapons, climate change and poverty, 
genocide and disease.

We know the battle ahead will be long. But always remember that, no matter 
what obstacles stand in our way, nothing can stand in the way of the power 
of millions of voices calling for change.

We have been told we cannot do this by a chorus of cynics. And they will 
only grow louder and more dissonant in the weeks and months to come. We've 
been asked to pause for a reality check. We've been warned against offering 
the people of this nation false hope. But in the unlikely story that is 
America, there has never been anything false about hope. For when we have 
faced down impossible odds, when we've been told we're not ready or that we 
shouldn't try or that we can't, generations of Americans have responded 
with a simple creed that sums up the spirit of a people:

Yes, we can.

    Yes, we can.

        Yes, we can.

It was a creed written into the founding documents that declared the 
destiny of a nation -- yes, we can.

It was whispered by slaves and abolitionists as they blazed a trail towards 
freedom through the darkest of nights -- yes, we can.

It was sung by immigrants as they struck out from distant shores and 
pioneers who pushed westward against an unforgiving wilderness -- yes, we 
can.

It was the call of workers who organized, women who reached for the ballot, 
a President who chose the moon as our new frontier, and a king who took us 
to the mountaintop and pointed the way to the promised land -- yes, we can, 
to justice and equality.

Yes, we can, to opportunity and prosperity.

Yes, we can heal this nation.

Yes, we can repair this world.

Yes, we can.

Together, we will begin the next great chapter in the American story, with 
three words that will ring from coast to coast, from sea to shining sea: 
Yes, we can.

Thank you, New Hampshire.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio Source: YouTube.com

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.