 

 

Barack Obama

Address to Multi-National Forces Serving in Iraq

delivered 7 April 2009, Al Faw Palace, Baghdad, Iraq

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf

 
click for flash


 

Thank you. Thank you, guys. Let me say Multinational Force Iraq, 
Multinational Corps Iraq, Multinational Security Transition Command Iraq 
First Corps, America's Corp Band: Thanks to all of you. Listen, I am so 
honored.

Audience Member:  We love you.

President Obama: I love you back. I am honored -- I'm honored and grateful 
to be with all of you.  And I'm not going to talk long because I want to 
shake as many hands as I can. And I've been talking all week. But there's a 
couple of things I want to say.  Number one, thank you.

You know, when I was at Camp Lejeune I spoke about what it means for 
America to see our best and brightest, our finest young men and women serve 
us. And what I said then is something that I want to repeat to you, which 
is: You have performed brilliantly in every mission that has been given to 
you.

Under enormous strain and under enormous sacrifice, through controversy and 
difficulty and politics, you've kept your eyes focused on just doing your 
job. And because of that, every mission that's been assigned -- from 
getting rid of Saddam, to reducing violence, to stabilizing the country, to 
facilitating elections -- you have given Iraq the opportunity to stand on 
its own as a democratic country. That is an extraordinary achievement, and 
for that you have the thanks of the American people.  That's point number 
one.

Point number two is, this is going to be a critical period, these next 18 
months.  I was just discussing this with your commander, but I think it's 
something that all of you know.  It is time for us to transition to the 
Iraqis. They need to take responsibility for their country and for their 
sovereignty.

And in order for them to do that, they have got to make political 
accommodations.  They're going to have to decide that they want to resolve 
their differences through constitutional means and legal means.  They are 
going to have to focus on providing government services that encourage 
confidence among their citizens.

All those things they have to do. We can't do it for them. But what we can 
do is make sure that we are a stalwart partner, that we are working 
alongside them, that we are committed to their success, that in terms of 
training their security forces, training their civilian forces in order to 
achieve a more effective government, they know that they have a steady 
partner with us.

And so just as we thank you for what you've already accomplished, I want to 
say thank you because you will be critical in terms of us being able to 
make sure that Iraq is stable, that it is not a safe haven for terrorists, 
that it is a good neighbor and a good ally, and we can start bringing our 
folks home. So now is not the time to lose focus. We have to be even more 
focused than we've been in order to achieve success.

The last point I want to make is I know how hard it's been on a lot of you. 
You've been away from your families, many of you for multiple rotations. 
You've seen buddies of yours injured and you remember those who have made 
the ultimate sacrifice.

There are probably some people here who have seen children born and have 
been missing watching them grow up.  There are many of you who have 
listened to your spouse and the extraordinary sacrifices that they have to 
make when you're gone.

And so I want you to know that Michelle and myself are doing everything -- 
are doing everything we can to provide additional support for military 
families. The federal budget that I have introduced increases support for 
military families. We are going to do everything required to make sure that 
the commitment we make to our veterans is met, and that people don't have 
to fight for what they have earned as a consequence of their service.

The main point I want to make is we have not forgotten what you have 
already done, we are grateful for what you will do, and as long as I am in 
the White House, you are going to get the support that you need and the 
thanks that you deserve from a grateful nation.

So thank you very much everybody. God bless you.

God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill
 
Text, Audio, Image (Souza) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-2011. 
American Rhetoric.