 

 

Barack Obama

Back-to-School Speech at Wakefield High School

delivered 8 September 2009, Arlington, Virginia

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Hello, everybody! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. All right, 
everybody go ahead and have a seat. How is everybody doing today? How about 
Tim Spicer? I am here with students at Wakefield High School in Arlington, 
Virginia. And we've got students tuning in from all across America, from 
kindergarten through 12th grade. And I am just so glad that all could join 
us today. And I want to thank Wakefield for being such an outstanding host. 
Give yourselves a big round of applause.

I know that for many of you, today is the first day of school. And for 
those of you in kindergarten, or starting middle or high school, it's your 
first day in a new school, so it's understandable if you're a little 
nervous. I imagine there are some seniors out there who are feeling pretty 
good right now -- with just one more year to go. And no matter what grade 
you're in, some of you are probably wishing it were still summer and you 
could've stayed in bed just a little bit longer this morning.

I know that feeling. When I was young, my family lived overseas. I lived in 
Indonesia for a few years. And my mother, she didn't have the money to send 
me where all the American kids went to school, but she thought it was 
important for me to keep up with an American education. So she decided to 
teach me extra lessons herself, Monday through Friday. But because she had 
to go to work, the only time she could do it was at 4:30 in the morning.

Now, as you might imagine, I wasn't too happy about getting up that early. 
And a lot of times, I'd fall asleep right there at the kitchen table. But 
whenever I'd complain, my mother would just give me one of those looks and 
she'd say, "This is no picnic for me either, buster."

So I know that some of you are still adjusting to being back at school. But 
I'm here today because I have something important to discuss with you. I'm 
here because I want to talk with you about your education and what's 
expected of all of you in this new school year.

Now, I've given a lot of speeches about education. And I've talked about 
responsibility a lot.

I've talked about teachers' responsibility for inspiring students and 
pushing you to learn.

I've talked about your parents' responsibility for making sure you stay on 
track, and you get your homework done, and don't spend every waking hour in 
front of the TV or with the Xbox.

I've talked a lot about your government's responsibility for setting high 
standards, and supporting teachers and principals, and turning around 
schools that aren't working, where students aren't getting the 
opportunities that they deserve.

But at the end of the day, we can have the most dedicated teachers, the 
most supportive parents, the best schools in the world -- and none of it 
will make a difference, none of it will matter unless all of you fulfill 
your responsibilities, unless you show up to those schools, unless you pay 
attention to those teachers, unless you listen to your parents and 
grandparents and other adults and put in the hard work it takes to succeed. 
That's what I want to focus on today: the responsibility each of you has 
for your education.

I want to start with the responsibility you have to yourself. Every single 
one of you has something that you're good at. Every single one of you has 
something to offer. And you have a responsibility to yourself to discover 
what that is. That's the opportunity an education can provide.

Maybe you could be a great writer -- maybe even good enough to write a book 
or articles in a newspaper -- but you might not know it until you write 
that English paper -- that English class paper that's assigned to you. 
Maybe you could be an innovator or an inventor -- maybe even good enough to 
come up with the next iPhone or the new medicine or vaccine -- but you 
might not know it until you do your project for your science class. Maybe 
you could be a mayor or a senator or a Supreme Court justice -- but you 
might not know that until you join student government or the debate team.

And no matter what you want to do with your life, I guarantee that you'll 
need an education to do it. You want to be a doctor, or a teacher, or a 
police officer? You want to be a nurse or an architect, a lawyer or a 
member of our military? You're going to need a good education for every 
single one of those careers. You cannot drop out of school and just drop 
into a good job. You've got to train for it and work for it and learn for 
it.

And this isn't just important for your own life and your own future. What 
you make of your education will decide nothing less than the future of this 
country. The future of America depends on you. What you're learning in 
school today will determine whether we as a nation can meet our greatest 
challenges in the future.

You'll need the knowledge and problem-solving skills you learn in science 
and math to cure diseases like cancer and AIDS, and to develop new energy 
technologies and protect our environment. You'll need the insights and 
critical-thinking skills you gain in history and social studies to fight 
poverty and homelessness, crime and discrimination, and make our nation 
more fair and more free. You'll need the creativity and ingenuity you 
develop in all your classes to build new companies that will create new 
jobs and boost our economy.

We need every single one of you to develop your talents and your skills and 
your intellect so you can help us old folks solve our most difficult 
problems. If you don't do that -- if you quit on school -- you're not just 
quitting on yourself, you're quitting on your country.

Now, I know it's not always easy to do well in school. I know a lot of you 
have challenges in your lives right now that can make it hard to focus on 
your schoolwork.

I get it. I know what it's like. My father left my family when I was two 
years old, and I was raised by a single mom who had to work and who 
struggled at times to pay the bills and wasn't always able to give us the 
things that other kids had. There were times when I missed having a father 
in my life. There were times when I was lonely and I felt like I didn't fit 
in.

So I wasn't always as focused as I should have been on school, and I did 
some things I'm not proud of, and I got in more trouble than I should have. 
And my life could have easily taken a turn for the worse.

But I was -- I was lucky. I got a lot of second chances, and I had the 
opportunity to go to college and law school and follow my dreams. My wife, 
our First Lady Michelle Obama, she has a similar story. Neither of her 
parents had gone to college, and they didn't have a lot of money. But they 
worked hard, and she worked hard, so that she could go to the best schools 
in this country.

Some of you might not have those advantages. Maybe you don't have adults in 
your life who give you the support that you need. Maybe someone in your 
family has lost their job and there's not enough money to go around. Maybe 
you live in a neighborhood where you don't feel safe, or have friends who 
are pressuring you to do things you know aren't right.

But at the end of the day, the circumstances of your life -- what you look 
like, where you come from, how much money you have, what you've got going 
on at home -- none of that is an excuse for neglecting your homework or 
having a bad attitude in school. That's no excuse for talking back to your 
teacher, or cutting class, or dropping out of school. There is no excuse 
for not trying.

Where you are right now doesn't have to determine where you'll end up. No 
one's written your destiny for you, because here in America, you write your 
own destiny. You make your own future.

That's what young people like you are doing every day, all across America.

Young people like Jazmin Perez, from Roma, Texas. Jazmin didn't speak 
English when she first started school. Neither of her parents had gone to 
college. But she worked hard, earned good grades, and got a scholarship to 
Brown University -- is now in graduate school, studying public health, on 
her way to becoming Dr. Jazmin Perez.

I'm thinking about Andoni Schultz, from Los Altos, California, who's fought 
brain cancer since he was three. He's had to endure all sorts of treatments 
and surgeries, one of which affected his memory, so it took him much longer 
-- hundreds of extra hours -- to do his schoolwork. But he never fell 
behind. He's headed to college this fall.

And then there's Shantell Steve, from my hometown of Chicago, Illinois. 
Even when bouncing from foster home to foster home in the toughest 
neighborhoods in the city, she managed to get a job at a local health care 
center, start a program to keep young people out of gangs, and she's on 
track to graduate high school with honors and go on to college.

And Jazmin, Andoni, and Shantell aren't any different from any of you. They 
face challenges in their lives just like you do. In some cases they've got 
it a lot worse off than many of you. But they refused to give up. They 
chose to take responsibility for their lives, for their education, and set 
goals for themselves. And I expect all of you to do the same.

That's why today I'm calling on each of you to set your own goals for your 
education -- and do everything you can to meet them. Your goal can be 
something as simple as doing all your homework, paying attention in class, 
or spending some time each day reading a book. Maybe you'll decide to get 
involved in an extracurricular activity, or volunteer in your community. 
Maybe you'll decide to stand up for kids who are being teased or bullied 
because of who they are or how they look, because you believe, like I do, 
that all young people deserve a safe environment to study and learn. Maybe 
you'll decide to take better care of yourself so you can be more ready to 
learn. And along those lines, by the way, I hope all of you are washing 
your hands a lot, and that you stay home from school when you don't feel 
well, so we can keep people from getting the flu this fall and winter.

But whatever you resolve to do, I want you to commit to it. I want you to 
really work at it.

I know that sometimes you get that sense from TV that you can be rich and 
successful without any hard work -- that your ticket to success is through 
rapping or basketball or being a reality TV star. Chances are you're not 
going to be any of those things.

The truth is, being successful is hard. You won't love every subject that 
you study. You won't click with every teacher that you have. Not every 
homework assignment will seem completely relevant to your life right at 
this minute. And you won't necessarily succeed at everything the first time 
you try.

That's okay. Some of the most successful people in the world are the ones 
who've had the most failures. J.K. Rowling's -- who wrote Harry Potter -- 
her first Harry Potter book was rejected 12 times before it was finally 
published. Michael Jordan was cut from his high school basketball team. He 
lost hundreds of games and missed thousands of shots during his career. But 
he once said, "I have failed over and over and over again in my life. And 
that's why I succeed."

These people succeeded because they understood that you can't let your 
failures define you -- you have to let your failures teach you. You have to 
let them show you what to do differently the next time. So if you get into 
trouble, that doesn't mean you're a troublemaker, it means you need to try 
harder to act right. If you get a bad grade, that doesn't mean you're 
stupid, it just means you need to spend more time studying.

No one's born being good at all things. You become good at things through 
hard work. You're not a varsity athlete the first time you play a new 
sport. You don't hit every note the first time you sing a song. You've got 
to practice. The same principle applies to your schoolwork. You might have 
to do a math problem a few times before you get it right. You might have to 
read something a few times before you understand it. You definitely have to 
do a few drafts of a paper before it's good enough to hand in.

Don't be afraid to ask questions. Don't be afraid to ask for help when you 
need it. I do that every day. Asking for help isn't a sign of weakness, 
it's a sign of strength because it shows you have the courage to admit when 
you don't know something, and that then allows you to learn something new. 
So find an adult that you trust -- a parent, a grandparent or teacher, a 
coach or a counselor -- and ask them to help you stay on track to meet your 
goals.

And even when you're struggling, even when you're discouraged, and you feel 
like other people have given up on you, don't ever give up on yourself, 
because when you give up on yourself, you give up on your country.

The story of America isn't about people who quit when things got tough. 
It's about people who kept going, who tried harder, who loved their country 
too much to do anything less than their best.

It's the story of students who sat where you sit 250 years ago, and went on 
to wage a revolution and they founded this nation. Young people. Students 
who sat where you sit 75 years ago who overcame a Depression and won a 
world war; who fought for civil rights and put a man on the moon. Students 
who sat where you sit 20 years ago who founded Google and Twitter and 
Facebook and changed the way we communicate with each other.

So today, I want to ask all of you, what's your contribution going to be? 
What problems are you going to solve? What discoveries will you make? What 
will a President who comes here in 20 or 50 or 100 years say about what all 
of you did for this country?

Now, your families, your teachers, and I are doing everything we can to 
make sure you have the education you need to answer these questions. I'm 
working hard to fix up your classrooms and get you the books and the 
equipment and the computers you need to learn. But you've got to do your 
part, too. So I expect all of you to get serious this year. I expect you to 
put your best effort into everything you do. I expect great things from 
each of you. So don't let us down. Don't let your family down or your 
country down. Most of all, don't let yourself down. Make us all proud.

Thank you very much, everybody.

God bless you. God bless America.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.