 

 

Barack Obama

Speech on Job Creation and Economic Growth at the Brookings Institution

delivered 8 December 2009, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 of Address 

Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[as prepared for delivery]

Thank you so much, Strobe, for your extraordinary leadership here at 
Brookings, and thanks to all of you in attendance. 

Almost exactly one year ago, on a frigid winter's day, I met with my new 
economic team at the headquarters of my presidential transition offices in 
Chicago.  And over the course of four hours, my advisors presented an 
analysis of where the economy at that time stood, accompanied by a chilling 
set of charts and graphs, predicting where we might end up.  It was an 
unforgettable series of presentations.

Christy Romer -- who's here today -- tapped to head the Council of Economic 
Advisers, as well as Larry Summers, who I'd chosen to head the National 
Economic Council, described an imminent downturn comparable in its severity 
to almost nothing since the 1930s.  Tim Geithner, my incoming Treasury 
Secretary, reported that the financial system, shaken by the subprime 
crisis, had halted almost all lending, which in turn threatened to pull the 
broader economy in a downward spiral.  Peter Orszag, my incoming Budget 
Director, closed out the proceedings with an entirely dismal report on the 
fiscal health of the country, with growing deficits and debt stretching to 
the horizon.  Having concluded that it was too late for me to request a 
recount -- (laughter) -- I tasked my team with mapping out a plan to tackle 
the crisis on all fronts. 

It wasn't long after that meeting, as we shaped this economic plan, that we 
began to see some of these forecasts materialize.  Over the previous year, 
it was obvious that folks were facing hard times.  As I traveled across the 
country during the long campaign, I would meet men and women bearing the 
brunt of not only a deepening recession, but also years -- even decades -- 
of growing strains on middle class families.  But now the country was 
experiencing something far worse.  Our gross domestic product -- the sum 
total of all that our economy produces  -- fell at the fastest rate in a 
quarter century.  Five trillion dollars of Americans' household wealth 
evaporated in just 12 weeks as stocks, pensions, and home values plummeted. 
 We were losing an average of 700,000 jobs each month, equivalent to the 
population of the state of Vermont.  That was true in December, January, 
February, March.  The fear among economists across the political spectrum 
that was -- was that we were rapidly plummeting towards a second Great 
Depression.

So, in the weeks and months that followed, we undertook a series of 
difficult steps to prevent that outcome.  And we were forced to take those 
steps largely without the help of an opposition party, which, 
unfortunately, after having presided over the decision-making that had led 
to the crisis, decided to hand it over to others to solve.

We acted to get lending flowing again so businesses could get loans to buy 
equipment, and ordinary Americans could get financing to buy homes and 
cars, to go to college, and to start or run businesses.  We enacted 
measures to stem the tide of foreclosures in our housing market, helping 
responsible homeowners stay in their homes and helping to stop the broader 
decline in home values which was eating away at what tends to be a family's 
largest asset. 

To achieve this, and to prevent economic collapse, we were forced to extend 
assistance to some of the very banks and financial institutions whose 
actions had helped precipitate the turmoil.  We also took steps to prevent 
the rapid dissolution of the American auto industry -- which faced a crisis 
partly of its own making -- to prevent the loss of hundreds of thousands of 
jobs during an already fragile, shaky time.  These were not decisions that 
were popular or satisfying; these were decisions that were necessary.

Now, even as we worked to address the crises in our banking sector, in our 
housing market, and in our auto industry, we also began attacking our 
economic crisis on a broader front.  Less than one month after taking 
office we enacted the most sweeping economic recovery package in history:  
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. 

The Recovery Act was divided into three parts.  One-third went for tax 
relief for small businesses and 95 percent of working families.  Another 
third was for emergency relief to help folks who've borne the brunt of this 
recession.  We extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 17 
million Americans; made health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families 
relying on COBRA. And for state and local governments facing historic 
budget shortfalls as demand for services went up and revenues went down, we 
provided assistance that has saved the jobs of hundreds of thousands of 
teachers and public school workers, firefighters and police officers.

The last third of the Recovery Act is for investments to put Americans to 
work doing the work that America needs done:  doubling our capacity in 
renewable energy like wind and solar; computerizing medical records to save 
money and lives; providing the largest boost to medical research in 
history; renovating classrooms and school laboratories; and upgrading roads 
and railways as part of the largest investment in infrastructure since the 
creation of the Interstate Highway System half a century ago.

And even as the Recovery Act has created jobs and spurred growth, we have 
not let up in our efforts to take every responsible action to get the 
economy growing and America working. 

This fall, I signed into law more than $30 billion in tax cuts for 
struggling businesses, extended an effective tax credit for homebuyers, and 
provided additional unemployment insurance for one million Americans.  And 
the Treasury is continuing to adapt our financial stability plan, helping 
to facilitate the flow of small credit to small businesses and families.  
In addition, we're working to break down barriers and open overseas markets 
so our companies can better compete globally, creating jobs in America by 
exporting our products around the world.

Now, partly as a result of these and other steps, we are in a very 
different place today than we were one year ago.  We may forget, but we're 
in a very different place.  We can safely say that we are no longer facing 
the potential collapse of our financial system and we've avoided the 
depression many feared.  Our economy is growing for the first time in a 
year, and the swing from contraction to expansion since the beginning of 
the year is the largest in nearly three decades. 

Finally, we're no longer seeing the severe deterioration in the job market 
that we once were.  In fact we learned on Friday that the unemployment rate 
fell slightly last month.  This is welcome news, and news made possible in 
part by the up to 1.6 million jobs that the Recovery Act has already 
created and saved according to the Congressional Budget Office.

But I'm here today because our work is far from done.  For even though 
we've reduced the deluge of job losses to a relative trickle, we are not 
yet creating jobs at a pace to help all those families who've been swept up 
in the flood.  There are more than 7 million fewer Americans with jobs 
today than when this recession began.  That's a staggering figure, and one 
that reflects not only the depths of the hole from which we must ascend, 
but also a continuing human tragedy. 

It was mentioned that I was in Allentown, Pennsylvania, this past weekend, 
and went to a job center where people were engaged in job search.  And it 
ran the spectrum -- blacks, whites, Hispanics, young people who were just 
starting their careers, individuals 50, 60 years old, looking for a job.  
And they were putting a brave face on it, confident that eventually things 
would work out, but you could also see the sense of anxiety, the fear that 
perhaps this time it was different.  Sometimes it's hard to break out of 
the bubble here in Washington and remind ourselves that behind these 
statistics are people's lives, their capacity to do right by their 
families.  It speaks to an urgent need to accelerate job growth in the 
short term while laying a new foundation for lasting economic growth.

My economic team has been considering a full range of additional ideas to 
help accelerate the pace of private sector hiring.  We held a jobs forum at 
the White House that brought together small business owners, CEOs, union 
members, economists, folks from non-profits, and state and local officials 
to talk about job creation.  And I've asked people to lead forums in their 
own communities -- sending the results to me -- so we are hearing as many 
voices as possible as we refine our proposals.  We've already heard a 
number of good ideas, and I know we'll learn of many more.

So today, I want to outline some of the broader steps that I believe should 
be at the heart of our effort to accelerate job growth -- those areas that 
will generate the greatest number of jobs while generating the greatest 
value for our economy.

First, we're proposing a series of steps to help small businesses grow and 
hire new staff.  Over the past 15 years, small businesses have created 
roughly 65 percent of all new jobs in America.  These are companies formed 
around kitchen tables in family meetings, formed when an entrepreneur takes 
a chance on a dream, formed when a worker decides it's time she became her 
own boss.  These are also companies that drive innovation, producing 13 
times more patents per employee than large companies.  And it's worth 
remembering, every once in a while a small business becomes a big business 
-- and changes the world.

That's why it's so important that we help small business struggling to stay 
open, or struggling to open in the first place, during these difficult 
times.  Building on the tax cuts in the Recovery Act, we're proposing a 
complete elimination of capital gains taxes on small business investment 
along with an extension of write-offs to encourage small businesses to 
expand in the coming year.  And I believe it's worthwhile to create a tax 
incentive to encourage small businesses to add and keep employees, and I'm 
going to work with Congress to pass one.

Now, these steps will help, but we also have to address the continuing 
struggle of small businesses to get loans that they need to start up and 
grow.  To that end, we're proposing to waive fees and increase the 
guarantees for SBA-backed loans.  And I'm asking my Treasury Secretary to 
continue mobilizing the remaining TARP funds to facilitate lending to small 
businesses.

Second, we're proposing a boost in investment in the nation's 
infrastructure beyond what was included in the Recovery Act, to continue 
modernizing our transportation and communications networks.  These are 
needed public works that engage private sector companies, spurring hiring 
all across the country. 

Already, more than 10,000 of these projects have been funded through the 
Recovery Act.  And by design, Recovery Act work on roads, bridges, water 
systems, Superfund sites, broadband networks, and clean energy projects 
will all be ramping up in the months ahead.  It was planned this way for 
two reasons:  so the impact would be felt over a two-year period; and, more 
importantly, because we wanted to do this right. 

The potential for abuse in a program of this magnitude, while operating at 
such a fast pace, was enormous.  So I asked Vice President Biden and others 
to make sure to the extent humanly possible that the investments were 
sound, the projects worthy, and the execution efficient.  What this means 
is that we're going to see even more work -- and workers -- on recovery 
projects in the next six months than we saw in the last six months.

Even so, there are many more worthy projects than there were dollars to 
fund them.  I recognize that by their nature these projects often take 
time, and will therefore create jobs over time.  But the need for jobs will 
also last beyond next year and the benefits of these investments will last 
years beyond that.  So adding to this initiative to rebuild America's 
infrastructure is the right thing to do. 

Third, I'm calling on Congress to consider a new program to provide 
incentives for consumers who retrofit their homes to become more 
energy-efficient, which we know creates jobs, saves money for families, and 
reduces the pollution that threatens our environment.  And I'm proposing 
that we expand select Recovery Act initiatives to promote energy efficiency 
and clean energy jobs which have been proven to be particularly popular and 
effective. 

It's a positive sign that many of these programs drew so many applicants 
for funding that a lot of strong proposals -- proposals that will leverage 
private capital and create jobs quickly -- did not make the cut.  With 
additional resources, in areas like advanced manufacturing of wind turbines 
and solar panels, for instance, we can help turn good ideas into good 
private sector jobs.

Finally, as we are moving forward in these areas, we should also extend the 
relief in the Recovery Act, including emergency assistance to seniors, 
unemployment insurance benefits, COBRA, and relief to states and localities 
to prevent layoffs.  This will help folks weathering these storms, while 
boosting consumer spending and promoting job growth.

Of course, there's only so much government can do. Job creation will 
ultimately depend on the real job creators:  businesses across America.  We 
were encouraged today to hear from the Business Roundtable that their 
survey showed greater confidence and greater potential investment coming 
out of the business community. 

Government can help lay the groundwork on which the private sector can 
better generate jobs, growth, and innovation.  After all, small business 
tax relief is not a substitute for ingenuity and industriousness by our 
entrepreneurs -- but it can help those with good ideas to grow and expand.  
Incentives to promote energy efficiency and clean energy manufacturing 
don't automatically create jobs or lower carbon emissions -- but these 
steps provide a framework in which companies can compete and innovate to 
create those jobs and reduce energy consumption.  And while modernizing the 
physical and virtual networks that connect us will create private-sector 
jobs, they'll do so while making it possible for companies to more easily 
and effectively move their products across this country and around the 
world, and that will create more jobs.

And given the challenges of accelerating the pace of hiring in the private 
sector, these targeted initiatives are right and they are needed.  But with 
a fiscal crisis to match our economic crisis, we also must be prudent about 
how we fund it.  So to help support these efforts, we are going to wind 
down the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- or TARP -- the fund created to 
stabilize the financial system so banks would lend again.

I don't think I have to tell you there has rarely been a less loved or more 
necessary emergency program than TARP, which -- as galling as the 
assistance to banks may have been -- indisputably helped prevent a collapse 
of the entire financial system.  Launched hastily -- understandably, but 
hastily -- under the last administration, the TARP program was flawed, and 
we have worked hard to correct those flaws and manage it properly.  And 
today, TARP has served its original purpose and at much lower cost than we 
expected.

In fact, because of our stewardship of this program, and the transparency 
and accountability we put in place, TARP is expected to cost the taxpayers 
at least $200 billion less than what was anticipated just this past summer. 
 And the assistance to banks, once thought to cost taxpayers untold 
billions, is on track to actually reap billions in profits for the 
taxpaying public.  So this gives us a chance to pay down the deficit faster 
than we thought possible and to shift funds that would have gone to help 
the banks on Wall Street to help create jobs on Main Street.

Small business, infrastructure, clean energy -- these are areas in which we 
can put Americans to work while putting our nation on a sturdier economic 
footing.  That foundation for sustained economic growth -- that must be our 
continuing focus and our ultimate goal. 

I've said this before.  Even before this particular crisis, much of our 
growth for a decade or more had been fueled by unsustainable consumer debt 
and reckless financial speculation, while we ignored the fundamental 
challenges that hold the key to our economic prosperity.  We cannot simply 
go back to the way things used to be.  We can't go back to an economy that 
yielded cycle after cycle of speculative booms and painful busts.  We can't 
continue to accept an education system in which our students trail their 
peers in other countries, and a health care system in which exploding costs 
put our businesses at a competitive disadvantage.  And we cannot continue 
to ignore the clean energy challenge or cede global leadership in the 
emerging industries of the 21st century.  And that's why, even as we strive 
to meet the crisis of the moment, we have insisted on laying a new 
foundation for the future.

Because an educated workforce is essential to a 21st century global 
economy, we've launched a competitive Race to the Top fund through the 
Recovery Act to reform our schools and raise achievement, especially in 
math and science.  And we've made college more affordable, proposed a 
historic set of reforms and investments in community college, and set a 
goal of once again leading the world in producing college graduates by the 
year 2020.

Because even the best-trained worker in the world can't compete if our 
businesses are saddled with rapidly increasing health care costs, we are 
fighting to do what we have discussed in this country for generations -- 
finally reforming our nation's broken health insurance system and relieving 
this unsustainable burden.

Because our economic future depends on a financial system that encourages 
sound investments, honest dealings, and long-term growth, we've proposed 
the most ambitious financial reforms since the Great Depression.  We'll set 
and enforce clear rules of the road, close loopholes in oversight, charge a 
new agency with protecting consumers and address the dangerous, systemic 
risks that brought us to the brink of disaster.  These reforms are moving 
through Congress, we're working to keep those reforms strong, and I'm 
looking forward to signing them into law.

And because our economic future depends on our leadership in the industries 
of the future, we are investing in basic applied research, and working to 
create the incentives to build a new clean energy economy.  For we know the 
nation that leads in clean energy will be the nation that leads the world.  
I want America to be that nation.  I want America's prosperity to be 
powered by what we invent and pioneer -- not just what we borrow and what 
we consume.  And I know that we can and will be that nation if we are 
willing to do what it takes to get there.

Now, there are those who claim we have to choose between paying down our 
deficits on the one hand, and investing in job creation and economic growth 
on the other.  This is a false choice.  Ensuring that economic growth and 
job creation are strong and sustained is critical to ensuring that we are 
increasing revenues and decreasing spending on things like unemployment 
insurance so that our deficits will start coming down.  At the same time, 
instilling confidence in our commitment to being fiscally prudent gives the 
private sector the confidence to make long-term investments in our people 
and in America.

So one of the central goals of this administration is restoring fiscal 
responsibility.  Even as we have had to spend our way out of this recession 
in the near term, we've begun to make the hard choices necessary to get our 
country on a more stable fiscal footing in the long run.  So let me just be 
clear here.  Despite what some have claimed, the cost of the Recovery Act 
is only a very small part of our current budget imbalance.  In reality, the 
deficit had been building dramatically over the previous eight years.  We 
have a structural gap between the money going out and the money coming in. 

Folks passed tax cuts and expansive entitlement programs without paying for 
any of it -- even as health care costs kept rising, year after year.  As a 
result, the deficit had reached $1.3 trillion when we walked into the White 
House.  And I'd note:  These budget-busting tax cuts and spending programs 
were approved by many of the same people who are now waxing political about 
fiscal responsibility, while opposing our efforts to reduce deficits by 
getting health care costs under control.  It's a sight to see.

The fact is we have refused to go along with business as usual; we are 
taking responsibility for every dollar we spend.  We've done what some said 
was impossible:  preventing wasteful spending on outdated weapons systems 
that even the Pentagon said it didn't want.  We've combed the budget, 
cutting waste and excess wherever we could.  I'm still committed to halving 
the deficit we inherited by the end of my first term -- cutting it in half. 
 And I made clear from day one that I would not sign a health insurance 
reform bill if it raised the deficit by one dime -- and neither the House, 
nor the Senate bill does.  We've begun not only changing policies in 
Washington, we've also begun to change the culture in Washington.

In the end, the economic crisis of the past year was not just the result of 
weaknesses in our economy.  It was also the result of weaknesses in our 
political system, because for decades, too many in Washington put off the 
hard decisions.  For decades, we've watched as efforts to solve tough 
problems have fallen prey to the bitterness of partisanship, to prosaic 
concerns of politics, to ever-quickening news cycles, to endless campaigns 
focused on scoring points instead of meeting our common challenges.

We've seen the consequences of this failure of responsibility.  The 
American people have paid a heavy price.  And the question we'll have to 
answer now is if we're going to learn from our past, or if -- even in the 
aftermath of disaster -- we're going to repeat those same mistakes.  As the 
alarm bells fade, the din of Washington rises, as the forces of the status 
quo marshal their resources, we can be sure that answering this question 
will be a fight to the finish.  But I have every hope and expectation that 
we can rise to this moment, that we can transcend the failures of the past, 
that we can once again take responsibility for our future.

Every night I read letters and e-mails sent to me from people across 
America -- ordinary folks, people who share their hopes and their 
hardships, their faith in this country, their frustration with what's 
happened in this economy.  I hear from small business owners worried about 
making payroll, keeping their doors open.  I hear from mothers and fathers, 
sons and daughters, who've seen one or two or more family members out of 
work.  The toughest letters are in children's handwriting -- kids write to 
me, my dad just lost a job; my grandma is sick, she can't afford health 
insurance -- kids who can't just be kids because they're worried about mom 
having her hours cut or dad losing a job, or a family without health 
insurance. 

These folks aren't looking for a handout, they're not looking for a bailout 
-- just like those people I visited in Allentown -- all they're looking for 
is a chance to make their own way, to work, to succeed using their talents 
and skills.  And they're looking for folks in Washington to have a 
seriousness of purpose that matches the reality of their struggle.

Everywhere I've gone, every stop I've made, there are people like this, men 
and women who have faced misfortune, but who stand ready to build a better 
future:  students ready to learn, workers eager to work, scientists on the 
brink of discovery, entrepreneurs seeking the chance to open a small 
business.  Everywhere I go, there are once-shuttered factories just waiting 
to whir back to life in burgeoning industries.  There is a nation ready to 
meet the challenges of this new age and to lead the world in this new 
century.  And as we look back on the progress of the past year, and look 
forward to the work ahead, I have every confidence that we will do exactly 
that.

These have been a tough two years.  And there will no doubt be difficult 
months ahead.  But the storms of the past are receding.  The skies are 
brightening.  And the horizon is beckoning once more.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.