 

 

Barack Obama

Nomination of Regina M. Benjamin for U.S. Surgeon General

delivered 13 July 2009

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good morning, everybody.  Before I introduce America's next Surgeon 
General, I'd like to say a few words about our ongoing efforts to reform 
the health care system that she will help oversee.

We are now closer to the goal of health care reform than we have ever been. 
 Over the last several weeks, key committees in the House and the Senate 
have made important and unprecedented progress on a plan that will lower 
costs, provide better care for patients, and curb the worst practices of 
the insurance companies.  It's a plan that will not add to our deficit over 
the next decade.  Let me repeat that:  It is a plan that will not add to 
our deficit over the next decade -- and eventually will help lower our 
deficit by slowing the skyrocketing cost of Medicare and Medicaid.

Even though we are close, I've got no illusions that it's going to be easy 
to get over the finish line.  There are going to be more debates and more 
disagreements before all is said and done.  But health care reform must be 
done.

I know there are those who believe we should wait to solve this problem, or 
take a more incremental approach, or simply do nothing.  But this is the 
kind of criticism we heard when the country tried to pass Medicare, a 
program that is now providing quality care to generations of American 
seniors.  It's the kind of criticism we heard when we tried to pass the 
Children's Health Insurance Program, which has provided quality care and 
coverage to millions of kids.  It's the same Washington thinking that has 
ignored big challenges and put off tough decisions for decades.  And it is 
precisely that kind of small thinking that has led us into the current 
predicament.

So make no mistake:  The status quo on health care is no longer an option 
for the United States of America.  If we step back from this challenge 
right now, we will leave our children a legacy of debt -- a future of 
crushing costs that bankrupt our families, our businesses, and because we 
will have done nothing to bring down the cost of Medicare and Medicaid, 
will crush our government.  Premiums will continue to skyrocket -- placing 
what amounts to another tax on American families struggling to pay bills.  
The insurance companies and special interests that have killed reform in 
the past will only continue to benefit even more -- and they'll continue to 
deny coverage to Americans with pre-existing medical conditions.  People 
will continue to lose health insurance just because they lose their job or 
they change jobs.

This is a future that we cannot afford.  This country can't afford to have 
health care premiums rise three times faster than people's wages, as they 
did over the last decade.  We can't afford 14,000 Americans losing their 
health care every single day.  We can't afford a future where our 
government will eventually spend more on Medicare and Medicaid than what we 
spend on everything else.

And during the campaign, I promised health care reform that would control 
costs, expand coverage, and ensure choice.  And I promised that Americans 
making $250,000 a year or less would not pay more in taxes.  These are 
promises that we're keeping as reform moves forward.

This is no longer a problem we can wait to fix.  This is about who we are 
as a country.  Health care reform is about every family's health, but it's 
also about the health of the economy.

So I just want to put everybody on notice, because there was a lot of 
chatter during the week that I was gone:  We are going to get this done.  
Inaction is not an option.  And for those nay-sayers and cynics who think 
that this is not going to happen, don't bet against us.  We are going to 
make this thing happen, because the American people desperately need it.

And even those who are satisfied with their health care right now, they 
understand that if premiums keep on doubling and if employers keep on 
shedding health insurance because it's unsustainable and if you look at the 
trajectory of where Medicare and Medicaid are going, then inaction will 
create the biggest crisis of all.

And so I understand people are a little nervous and a little scared about 
making change.  The muscles in this town to bring about big changes are a 
little atrophied, but we're whipping folks back into shape.  We are going 
to get this done.  And if there's anyone who understands the urgency of 
meeting this challenge in a personal and powerful way, it's the woman who 
will become our nation's next Surgeon General, Dr. Regina Benjamin.

The list of qualifications that make Dr. Benjamin an outstanding candidate 
to be America's leading spokesperson on issues of public health are long 
indeed.  She was in the second class at Morehouse School of Medicine and 
went on to earn an MD from the University of Alabama at Birmingham and an 
MBA from Tulane.  She served as Associate Dean for Rural Health at the 
University of South Alabama College of Medicine, and in 1995, she became 
the first physician under 40 and the first African American woman to be 
named to the American Medical Association's Board of Trustees.  In 2002, 
she became President of Alabama's State Medical Association.  And she has 
received numerous awards and recognitions, including the MacArthur Genius 
Award.  It's very impressive.

But of all these achievements and experience, none has been more pertinent 
to today's challenges or closer to Regina's heart than the rural health 
clinic that she has built and rebuilt in Bayou La Batre -- did I say that 
right?  Well, tell me how to say it.

DR. BENJAMIN:  Bayou La Batre.

THE PRESIDENT:  Bayou La Batre.  That's in Alabama, people.

Bayou La Batre is a rural town of about 2,500 people.  It's a shrimping 
town, where a lot of folks work for themselves, scrape by, and can't 
usually afford health insurance.  And by the way, Dr. Benjamin, while we 
were talking in the Oval Office, described for me the demographics of this 
town are actually very interesting, because you've got whites, blacks, and 
Asians in this community.  There are a lot of Laotians and Cambodians who 
have moved there and are part of this shrimping town, so it's a diverse but 
very poor rural community.  And like so many other rural communities, 
doctors and hospitals are hard to come by.  And that's why, even though she 
could have left the state to make more money as a specialist or as a doctor 
in a wealthier community, Regina Benjamin returned to Alabama and opened a 
small clinic in Bayou La Batre.

When people couldn't pay, she didn't charge them.  When the clinic wasn't 
making money, she didn't take a salary for herself. When Hurricane George 
destroyed the clinic in 1998, she made house calls to all her patients 
while it was rebuilt.  When Hurricane Katrina destroyed it again and left 
most of her town homeless, she mortgaged her house and maxed out her credit 
cards to rebuild that clinic for a second time.  She tended to those who 
had been wounded in the storm, and when folks needed medicine, she asked 
the pharmacist to send the bill her way.

And when Regina's clinic was about to open for the third time, and a fire 
burned it to the ground before it could serve the first patient, well, you 
can guess what Dr. Benjamin did.  With help from her community, she is 
rebuilding it again.  One disabled patient brought her an envelope with $20 
inside.  Another elderly man said simply, "Maybe I can help.  I got a 
hammer."

For nearly two decades, Dr. Regina Benjamin has seen in a very personal way 
what is broken about our health care system.  She's seen an increasing 
number of patients who've had health insurance their entire lives suddenly 
lose it because they lost their jobs or because it's simply become too 
expensive.  She's been a relentless promoter of prevention and wellness 
programs, having treated too many costly and -- diseases and complications 
that didn't have to happen.  And she's witnessed the shortage of primary 
care physicians in the rural and underserved areas where she works.

But for all that she's seen and all the tremendous obstacles that she has 
overcome, Regina Benjamin also represents what's best about health care in 
America -- doctors and nurses who give and care and sacrifice for the sake 
of their patients; those Americans who would do anything to heal a fellow 
citizen.  Through floods and fires and severe want, Regina Benjamin has 
refused to give up.  Her patients have refused to give up.  And when we 
were talking in the Oval Office, she said:  The one thing I want to do is 
make sure that this Surgeon General's Office gives voice to patients, that 
patients have a seat at the table; somebody is advocating for them and 
speaking for them.

And now we in Washington and across America have to refuse to give up on 
the goal of health care that is affordable and accessible for every last 
one of us.  We don't have to deal with hurricanes and we don't have to deal 
with floods and we don't have to deal with fires; all we have to do is pass 
a bill to make sure that the American people have a decent shot at getting 
the kind of choice and high-quality health care that's affordable.

And I know that Dr. Benjamin is going to help us get there as the next 
Surgeon General.  And I am truly honored to nominate her for that post, and 
Secretary Sebelius is equally excited, even though she's just standing 
here.

With that, let me introduce the next Surgeon General of the United States, 
Dr. Regina Benjamin.

 

Click here  for Regina 
Benjamin's remarks

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.