 

 

Barack Obama

Al-Arabiya Television Interview With Hisham Melhem

delivered 26 January 2009

Audio mp3 of Address 

Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Q: Mr. President, thank you for this opportunity, we really appreciate it.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you so much.

Q: Sir, you just met with your personal envoy to the Middle East, Senator 
Mitchell. Obviously, his first -- first task is to consolidate the 
cease-fire. But beyond that you've been saying that you want to pursue 
actively and aggressively peacemaking between the Palestinians and the 
Israelis. Tell us a little bit about how do you see your personal role, 
because, you know, if the President of the United States is not involved, 
nothing happens -- as the history of peace making shows. Will you be 
proposing ideas, pitching proposals, parameters, as one of your 
predecessors did? Or just urging the parties to come up with their own 
resolutions, as your immediate predecessor did?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I -- I think the most important thing is for the 
United States to get engaged right away. And George Mitchell is somebody of 
enormous stature. He is one of the few people who have international 
experience brokering peace deals.

And so what I told him is start by listening, because all too often the 
United States starts by dictating -- in the past on some of these issues -- 
and we don't always know all the factors that are involved. So let's 
listen. He's going to be speaking to all the major parties involved. And he 
will then report back to me. From there we will formulate a specific 
response.

Ultimately, we cannot tell either the Israelis or the Palestinians what's 
best for them. They're going to have to make some decisions. But I do 
believe that the moment is ripe for both sides to realize that the path 
that they are on is one that is not going to result in prosperity and 
security for their people. And that instead, it's time to return to the 
negotiating table.

And it's going to be difficult, it's going to take time. I don't want to 
prejudge many of these issues, and I want to make sure that expectations 
are not raised so that we think that this is going to be resolved in a few 
months. But if we start the steady progress on these issues, I'm absolutely 
confident that the United States -- working in tandem with the European 
Union, with Russia, with all the Arab states in the region -- I'm 
absolutely certain that we can make significant progress.

Q: You've been saying essentially that we should not look at these issues 
-- like the Palestinian-Israeli track and separation from the border region 
-- you've been talking about a kind of holistic approach to the region. Are 
we expecting a different paradigm in the sense that in the past one of the 
critiques -- at least from the Arab side, the Muslim side -- is that 
everything the Americans always tested with the Israelis, if it works. Now 
there is an Arab peace plan, there is a regional aspect to it. And you've 
indicated that. Would there be any shift, a paradigm shift?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, here's what I think is important. Look at the proposal 
that was put forth by King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia --

Q: Right.

 THE PRESIDENT: I might not agree with every aspect of the proposal, but it 
took great courage --

Q: Absolutely.

THE PRESIDENT: -- to put forward something that is as significant as that.
I think that there are ideas across the region of how we might pursue 
peace.

I do think that it is impossible for us to think only in terms of the 
Palestinian-Israeli conflict and not think in terms of what's happening 
with Syria or Iran or Lebanon or Afghanistan and Pakistan.

These things are interrelated. And what I've said, and I think Hillary 
Clinton has expressed this in her confirmation, is that if we are looking 
at the region as a whole and communicating a message to the Arab world and 
the Muslim world, that we are ready to initiate a new partnership based on 
mutual respect and mutual interest, then I think that we can make 
significant progress.

Now, Israel is a strong ally of the United States. They will not stop being 
a strong ally of the United States. And I will continue to believe that 
Israel's security is paramount. But I also believe that there are Israelis 
who recognize that it is important to achieve peace. They will be willing 
to make sacrifices if the time is appropriate and if there is serious 
partnership on the other side.

And so what we want to do is to listen, set aside some of the 
preconceptions that have existed and have built up over the last several 
years. And I think if we do that, then there's a possibility at least of 
achieving some breakthroughs.

Q: I want to ask you about the broader Muslim world, but let me Ð one final 
thing about the Palestinian-Israeli theater. There are many Palestinians 
and Israelis who are very frustrated now with the current conditions and 
they are losing hope, they are disillusioned, and they believe that time is 
running out on the two-state solution because -- mainly because of the 
settlement activities in Palestinian-occupied territories.

Will it still be possible to see a Palestinian state -- and you know the 
contours of it -- within the first Obama administration?

THE PRESIDENT: I think it is possible for us to see a Palestinian state -- 
I'm not going to put a time frame on it -- that is contiguous, that allows 
freedom of movement for its people, that allows for trade with other 
countries, that allows the creation of businesses and commerce so that 
people have a better life.

And, look, I think anybody who has studied the region recognizes that the 
situation for the ordinary Palestinian in many cases has not improved. And 
the bottom line in all these talks and all these conversations is, is a 
child in the Palestinian Territories going to be better off? Do they have a 
future for themselves? And is the child in Israel going to feel confident 
about his or her safety and security? And if we can keep our focus on 
making their lives better and look forward, and not simply think about all 
the conflicts and tragedies of the past, then I think that we have an 
opportunity to make real progress. But it is not going to be easy, and 
that's why we've got George Mitchell going there. This is somebody with 
extraordinary patience as well as extraordinary skill, and that's what's 
going to be necessary.

Q: Absolutely. Let me take a broader look at the whole region. You are 
planning to address the Muslim world in your first 100 days from a Muslim 
capital. And everybody is speculating about the capital. (Laughter) If you 
have anything further, that would be great. How concerned are you -- 
because, let me tell you, honestly, when I see certain things about America 
-- in some parts, I don't want to exaggerate -- there is a demonization of 
America.

THE PRESIDENT: Absolutely.

Q: It's become like a new religion, and like a new religion it has new 
converts -- like a new religion has its own high priests.

THE PRESIDENT: Right.

Q: It's only a religious text.

THE PRESIDENT: Right.

Q: And in the last -- since 9/11 and because of Iraq, that alienation is 
wider between the Americans and -- and in generations past, the United 
States was held high. It was the only Western power with no colonial 
legacy.

THE PRESIDENT: Right.

Q: How concerned are you and -- because people sense that you have a 
different political discourse. And I think, judging by (inaudible) and
Zawahiri and Osama bin Laden and all these, you know -- a chorus --

THE PRESIDENT: Yes, I noticed this. They seem nervous.

Q: They seem very nervous, exactly. Now, tell me why they should be more 
nervous?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I think that when you look at the rhetoric that 
they've been using against me before I even took office --

Q: I know, I know.

THE PRESIDENT: -- what that tells me is that their ideas are bankrupt. 
There's no actions that they've taken that say a child in the Muslim world 
is getting a better education because of them, or has better health care 
because of them.

In my inauguration speech, I spoke about: You will be judged on what you've 
built, not what you've destroyed. And what they've been doing is destroying 
things. And over time, I think the Muslim world has recognized that that 
path is leading no place, except more death and destruction.

Now, my job is to communicate the fact that the United States has a stake 
in the well-being of the Muslim world that the language we use has to be a 
language of respect. I have Muslim members of my family. I have lived in 
Muslim countries.

Q: The largest one.

THE PRESIDENT: The largest one, Indonesia. And so what I want to 
communicate is the fact that in all my travels throughout the Muslim world, 
what I've come to understand is that regardless of your faith -- and 
America is a country of Muslims, Jews, Christians, non-believers -- 
regardless of your faith, people all have certain common hopes and common 
dreams.

And my job is to communicate to the American people that the Muslim world 
is filled with extraordinary people who simply want to live their lives and 
see their children live better lives. My job to the Muslim world is to 
communicate that the Americans are not your enemy. We sometimes make 
mistakes. We have not been perfect. But if you look at the track record, as 
you say, America was not born as a colonial power, and that the same 
respect and partnership that America had with the Muslim world as recently 
as 20 or 30 years ago, there's no reason why we can't restore that. And 
that I think is going to be an important task.

But ultimately, people are going to judge me not by my words but by my 
actions and my administration's actions. And I think that what you will see 
over the next several years is that I'm not going to agree with everything 
that some Muslim leader may say, or what's on a television station in the 
Arab world -- but I think that what you'll see is somebody who is 
listening, who is respectful, and who is trying to promote the interests 
not just of the United States, but also ordinary people who right now are 
suffering from poverty and a lack of opportunity. I want to make sure that 
I'm speaking to them, as well.

Q: Tell me, time is running out, any decision on from where you will be 
visiting the Muslim world?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I'm not going to break the news right here.

Q: Afghanistan?

THE PRESIDENT: But maybe next time. But it is something that is going to be 
important. I want people to recognize, though, that we are going to be 
making a series of initiatives. Sending George Mitchell to the Middle East 
is fulfilling my campaign promise that we're not going to wait until the 
end of my administration to deal with Palestinian and Israeli peace, we're 
going to start now. It may take a long time to do, but we're going to do it 
now. We're going to follow through on our commitment for me to address the 
Muslim world from a Muslim capital. We are going to follow through on many 
of my commitments to do a more effective job of reaching out, listening, as 
well as speaking to the Muslim world.

And you're going to see me following through with dealing with a drawdown 
of troops in Iraq, so that Iraqis can start taking more responsibility. And 
finally, I think you've already seen a commitment, in terms of closing 
Guantanamo, and making clear that even as we are decisive in going after 
terrorist organizations that would kill innocent civilians, that we're 
going to do so on our terms, and we're going to do so respecting the rule 
of law that I think makes America great.

Q: President Bush framed the war on terror conceptually in a way that was 
very broad, "war on terror," and used sometimes certain terminology that 
the many people -- Islamic fascism. You've always framed it in a different 
way, specifically against one group called al Qaeda and their 
collaborators. And is this one way of --

THE PRESIDENT: I think that you're making a very important point. And that 
is that the language we use matters. And what we need to understand is, is 
that there are extremist organizations -- whether Muslim or any other faith 
in the past -- that will use faith as a justification for violence. We 
cannot paint with a broad brush a faith as a consequence of the violence 
that is done in that faith's name.

And so you will I think see our administration be very clear in 
distinguishing between organizations like al Qaeda -- that espouse 
violence, espouse terror and act on it -- and people who may disagree with 
my administration and certain actions, or may have a particular viewpoint 
in terms of how their countries should develop. We can have legitimate 
disagreements but still be respectful. I cannot respect terrorist 
organizations that would kill innocent civilians and we will hunt them 
down.

But to the broader Muslim world what we are going to be offering is a hand 
of friendship.

Q: Can I end with a question on Iran and Iraq then quickly?

THE PRESIDENT: It's up to the team.

MR. GIBBS: You have 30 seconds.

Q: Will the United States ever live with a nuclear Iran? And if not, how 
far are you going in the direction of preventing it?

THE PRESIDENT: You know, I said during the campaign that it is very 
important for us to make sure that we are using all the tools of U.S. 
power, including diplomacy, in our relationship with Iran.

Now, the Iranian people are a great people, and Persian civilization is a 
great civilization. Iran has acted in ways that's not conducive to peace 
and prosperity in the region: their threats against Israel; their pursuit 
of a nuclear weapon which could potentially set off an arms race in the 
region that would make everybody less safe; their support of terrorist 
organizations in the past -- none of these things have been helpful.

But I do think that it is important for us to be willing to talk to Iran, 
to express very clearly where our differences are, but where there are 
potential avenues for progress. And we will over the next several months be 
laying out our general framework and approach. And as I said during my 
inauguration speech, if countries like Iran are willing to unclench their 
fist, they will find an extended hand from us.

Q: Shall we leave Iraq next interview, or just --

MR. GIBBS: Yes, let's -- we're past, and I've got to get him back to dinner 
with his wife.

Q: Sir, I really appreciate it.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you so much.

Q: Thanks a lot.

THE PRESIDENT: I appreciate it.

Q: Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Copyright Status: Text & Audio = Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.