 

 

Barack Obama

Eulogy for Ted Kennedy

delivered 29 August 2009

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf  
   
click for flash


 

Your Eminence, Vicki, Kara, Edward, Patrick, Curran, Caroline, members of 
the Kennedy family, distinguished guests, and fellow citizens:

Today we say goodbye to the youngest child of Rose and Joseph Kennedy. The 
world will long remember their son Edward as the heir to a weighty legacy; 
a champion for those who had none; the soul of the Democratic Party; and 
the lion of the U.S. Senate - a man whose name graces nearly one thousand 
laws, and who penned more than three hundred himself.

But those of us who loved him, and ache with his passing, know Ted Kennedy 
by the other titles he held: Father. Brother. Husband. Uncle Teddy, or as 
he was often known to his younger nieces and nephews, "The Grand Fromage," 
or "The Big Cheese." I, like so many others in the city where he worked for 
nearly half a century, knew him as a colleague, a mentor, and above all, a 
friend.

Ted Kennedy was the baby of the family who became its patriarch; the 
restless dreamer who became its rock. He was the sunny, joyful child, who 
bore the brunt of his brothers' teasing, but learned quickly how to brush 
it off. When they tossed him off a boat because he didn't know what a jib 
was, six-year-old Teddy got back in and learned to sail. When a 
photographer asked the newly-elected Bobby to step back at a press 
conference because he was casting a shadow on his younger brother, Teddy 
quipped, "It'll be the same in Washington."

This spirit of resilience and good humor would see Ted Kennedy through more 
pain and tragedy than most of us will ever know. He lost two siblings by 
the age of sixteen. He saw two more taken violently from the country that 
loved them. He said goodbye to his beloved sister, Eunice, in the final 
days of his own life. He narrowly survived a plane crash, watched two 
children struggle with cancer, buried three nephews, and experienced 
personal failings and setbacks in the most public way possible.

It is a string of events that would have broken a lesser man. And it would 
have been easy for Teddy to let himself become bitter and hardened; to 
surrender to self-pity and regret; to retreat from public life and live out 
his years in peaceful quiet. No one would have blamed him for that.

But that was not Ted Kennedy. As he told us, "...[I]ndividual faults and 
frailties are no excuse to give in - and no exemption from the common 
obligation to give of ourselves." Indeed, Ted was the "Happy Warrior" that 
the poet William Wordsworth spoke of when he wrote:

As tempted more; more able to endure,

As more exposed to suffering and distress;

Thence, also, more alive to tenderness.

Through his own suffering, Ted Kennedy became more alive to the plight and 
suffering of others - the sick child who could not see a doctor; the young 
soldier sent to battle without armor; the citizen denied her rights because 
of what she looks like or who she loves or where she comes from. The 
landmark laws that he championed -- the Civil Rights Act, the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, immigration reform, children's health care, the 
Family and Medical Leave Act -all have a running thread. Ted Kennedy's 
life's work was not to champion those with wealth or power or special 
connections. It was to give a voice to those who were not heard; to add a 
rung to the ladder of opportunity; to make real the dream of our founding. 
He was given the gift of time that his brothers were not, and he used that 
gift to touch as many lives and right as many wrongs as the years would 
allow.

We can still hear his voice bellowing through the Senate chamber, face 
reddened, fist pounding the podium, a veritable force of nature, in support 
of health care or workers' rights or civil rights. And yet, while his 
causes became deeply personal, his disagreements never did. While he was 
seen by his fiercest critics as a partisan lightning rod, that is not the 
prism through which Ted Kennedy saw the world, nor was it the prism through 
which his colleagues saw him. He was a product of an age when the joy and 
nobility of politics prevented differences of party and philosophy from 
becoming barriers to cooperation and mutual respect - a time when 
adversaries still saw each other as patriots.

And that's how Ted Kennedy became the greatest legislator of our time. He 
did it by hewing to principle, but also by seeking compromise and common 
cause - not through deal-making and horse-trading alone, but through 
friendship, and kindness, and humor. There was the time he courted Orrin 
Hatch's support for the Children's Health Insurance Program by having his 
Chief of Staff serenade the Senator with a song Orrin had written himself; 
the time he delivered shamrock cookies on a china plate to sweeten up a 
crusty Republican colleague; and the famous story of how he won the support 
of a Texas Committee Chairman on an immigration bill. Teddy walked into a 
meeting with a plain manila envelope, and showed only the Chairman that it 
was filled with the Texan's favorite cigars. When the negotiations were 
going well, he would inch the envelope closer to the Chairman. When they 
weren't, he would pull it back. Before long, the deal was done.

It was only a few years ago, on St. Patrick's Day, when Teddy buttonholed 
me on the floor of the Senate for my support on a certain piece of 
legislation that was coming up for vote. I gave him my pledge, but 
expressed my skepticism that it would pass. But when the roll call was 
over, the bill garnered the votes it needed, and then some. I looked at 
Teddy with astonishment and asked how he had pulled it off. He just patted 
me on the back, and said "Luck of the Irish!"

Of course, luck had little to do with Ted Kennedy's legislative success, 
and he knew that. A few years ago, his father-in-law told him that he and 
Daniel Webster just might be the two greatest senators of all time. Without 
missing a beat, Teddy replied, "What did Webster do?"

But though it is Ted Kennedy's historic body of achievements we will 
remember, it is his giving heart that we will miss. It was the friend and 
colleague who was always the first to pick up the phone and say, "I'm sorry 
for your loss," or "I hope you feel better," or "What can I do to help?" It 
was the boss who was so adored by his staff that over five hundred spanning 
five decades showed up for his 75th birthday party. It was the man who sent 
birthday wishes and thank you notes and even his own paintings to so many 
who never imagined that a U.S. Senator would take the time to think about 
someone like them. I have one of those paintings in my private study - a 
Cape Cod seascape that was a gift to a freshman legislator who happened to 
admire it when Ted Kennedy welcomed him into his office the first week he 
arrived in Washington; by the way, that's my second favorite gift from 
Teddy and Vicki after our dog Bo. And it seems like everyone has one of 
those stories - the ones that often start with "You wouldn't believe who 
called me today."

Ted Kennedy was the father who looked after not only his own three 
children, but John's and Bobby's as well. He took them camping and taught 
them to sail. He laughed and danced with them at birthdays and weddings; 
cried and mourned with them through hardship and tragedy; and passed on 
that same sense of service and selflessness that his parents had instilled 
in him. Shortly after Ted walked Caroline down the aisle and gave her away 
at the altar, he received a note from Jackie that read, "On you the 
carefree youngest brother fell a burden a hero would have begged to be 
spared. We are all going to make it because you were always there with your 
love."

Not only did the Kennedy family make it because of Ted's love - he made it 
because of theirs; and especially because of the love and the life he found 
in Vicki. After so much loss and so much sorrow, it could not have been 
easy for Ted Kennedy to risk his heart again. That he did is a testament to 
how deeply he loved this remarkable woman from Louisiana. And she didn't 
just love him back. As Ted would often acknowledge, Vicki saved him. She 
gave him strength and purpose; joy and friendship; and stood by him always, 
especially in those last, hardest days.

We cannot know for certain how long we have here. We cannot foresee the 
trials or misfortunes that will test us along the way. We cannot know God's 
plan for us.

What we can do is to live out our lives as best we can with purpose, and 
love, and joy. We can use each day to show those who are closest to us how 
much we care about them, and treat others with the kindness and respect 
that we wish for ourselves. We can learn from our mistakes and grow from 
our failures. And we can strive at all costs to make a better world, so 
that someday, if we are blessed with the chance to look back on our time 
here, we can know that we spent it well; that we made a difference; that 
our fleeting presence had a lasting impact on the lives of other human 
beings.

This is how Ted Kennedy lived. This is his legacy. He once said of his 
brother Bobby that he need not be idealized or enlarged in death beyond 
what he was in life, and I imagine he would say the same about himself. The 
greatest expectations were placed upon Ted Kennedy's shoulders because of 
who he was, but he surpassed them all because of who he became. We do not 
weep for him today because of the prestige attached to his name or his 
office. We weep because we loved this kind and tender hero who persevered 
through pain and tragedy - not for the sake of ambition or vanity; not for 
wealth or power; but only for the people and the country he loved.

In the days after September 11th, Teddy made it a point to personally call 
each one of the 177 families of this state who lost a loved one in the 
attack. But he didn't stop there. He kept calling and checking up on them. 
He fought through red tape to get them assistance and grief counseling. He 
invited them sailing, played with their children, and would write each 
family a letter whenever the anniversary of that terrible day came along. 
To one widow, he wrote the following:

"As you know so well, the passage of time never really heals the tragic 
memory of such a great loss, but we carry on, because we have to, because 
our loved one would want us to, and because there is still light to guide 
us in the world from the love they gave us."

We carry on.

Ted Kennedy has gone home now, guided by his faith and by the light of 
those he has loved and lost. At last he is with them once more, leaving 
those of us who grieve his passing with the memories he gave, the good he 
did, the dream he kept alive, and a single, enduring image - the image of a 
man on a boat; white mane tousled; smiling broadly as he sails into the 
wind, ready for what storms may come, carrying on toward some new and 
wondrous place just beyond the horizon. May God Bless Ted Kennedy, and may 
he rest in eternal peace.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present.
American Rhetoric.