 

 

Barack Obama

Speech on American Values and National Security

delivered 21 May 2009, National Archives, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good morning, everybody.  Please be seated.  Thank you all for being here.  
Let me just acknowledge the presence of some of my outstanding Cabinet 
members and advisors.  We've got our Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton.  
We have our CIA Director Leon Panetta.  We have our Secretary of Defense 
William Gates; Secretary Napolitano of Department of Homeland Security; 
Attorney General Eric Holder; my National Security Advisor Jim Jones.  And 
I want to especially thank our Acting Archivist of the United States, 
Adrienne Thomas.

I also want to acknowledge several members of the House who have great 
interest in intelligence matters.  I want to thank Congressman Reyes, 
Congressman Hoekstra, Congressman King, as well as Congressman Thompson, 
for being here today.  Thank you so much.

These are extraordinary times for our country.  We're confronting a 
historic economic crisis.  We're fighting two wars.  We face a range of 
challenges that will define the way that Americans will live in the 21st 
century.  So there's no shortage of work to be done, or responsibilities to 
bear.

And we've begun to make progress.  Just this week, we've taken steps to 
protect American consumers and homeowners, and to reform our system of 
government contracting so that we better protect our people while spending 
our money more wisely.  The -- it's a good bill.  The engines of our 
economy are slowly beginning to turn, and we're working towards historic 
reform on health care and on energy.  I want to say to the members of 
Congress, I welcome all the extraordinary work that has been done over 
these last four months on these and other issues.

In the midst of all these challenges, however, my single most important 
responsibility as President is to keep the American people safe.  It's the 
first thing that I think about when I wake up in the morning.  It's the 
last thing that I think about when I go to sleep at night.

And this responsibility is only magnified in an era when an extremist 
ideology threatens our people, and technology gives a handful of terrorists 
the potential to do us great harm.  We are less than eight years removed 
from the deadliest attack on American soil in our history.  We know that al 
Qaeda is actively planning to attack us again.  We know that this threat 
will be with us for a long time, and that we must use all elements of our 
power to defeat it.

Already, we've taken several steps to achieve that goal.  For the first 
time since 2002, we're providing the necessary resources and strategic 
direction to take the fight to the extremists who attacked us on 9/11 in 
Afghanistan and Pakistan.  We're investing in the 21st century military and 
intelligence capabilities that will allow us to stay one step ahead of a 
nimble enemy.  We have re-energized a global non-proliferation regime to 
deny the world's most dangerous people access to the world's deadliest 
weapons.  And we've launched an effort to secure all loose nuclear 
materials within four years.  We're better protecting our border, and 
increasing our preparedness for any future attack or natural disaster.  
We're building new partnerships around the world to disrupt, dismantle, and 
defeat al Qaeda and its affiliates.  And we have renewed American diplomacy 
so that we once again have the strength and standing to truly lead the 
world.

These steps are all critical to keeping America secure.  But I believe with 
every fiber of my being that in the long run we also cannot keep this 
country safe unless we enlist the power of our most fundamental values.  
The documents that we hold in this very hall -- the Declaration of 
Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights -- these are not simply 
words written into aging parchment.  They are the foundation of liberty and 
justice in this country, and a light that shines for all who seek freedom, 
fairness, equality, and dignity around the world.

I stand here today as someone whose own life was made possible by these 
documents.  My father came to these shores in search of the promise that 
they offered.  My mother made me rise before dawn to learn their truths 
when I lived as a child in a foreign land.  My own American journey was 
paved by generations of citizens who gave meaning to those simple words -- 
"to form a more perfect union."  I've studied the Constitution as a 
student, I've taught it as a teacher, I've been bound by it as a lawyer and 
a legislator.  I took an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the 
Constitution as Commander-in-Chief, and as a citizen, I know that we must 
never, ever, turn our back on its enduring principles for expedience sake.

I make this claim not simply as a matter of idealism.  We uphold our most 
cherished values not only because doing so is right, but because it 
strengthens our country and it keeps us safe.  Time and again, our values 
have been our best national security asset -- in war and peace; in times of 
ease and in eras of upheaval.

Fidelity to our values is the reason why the United States of America grew 
from a small string of colonies under the writ of an empire to the 
strongest nation in the world.

It's the reason why enemy soldiers have surrendered to us in battle, 
knowing they'd receive better treatment from America's Armed Forces than 
from their own government.

It's the reason why America has benefitted from strong alliances that 
amplified our power, and drawn a sharp, moral contrast with our 
adversaries.

It's the reason why we've been able to overpower the iron fist of fascism 
and outlast the iron curtain of communism, and enlist free nations and free 
peoples everywhere in the common cause and common effort of liberty.

From Europe to the Pacific, we've been the nation that has shut down 
torture chambers and replaced tyranny with the rule of law.  That is who we 
are.  And where terrorists offer only the injustice of disorder and 
destruction, America must demonstrate that our values and our institutions 
are more resilient than a hateful ideology.

After 9/11, we knew that we had entered a new era -- that enemies who did 
not abide by any law of war would present new challenges to our application 
of the law; that our government would need new tools to protect the 
American people, and that these tools would have to allow us to prevent 
attacks instead of simply prosecuting those who try to carry them out.

Unfortunately, faced with an uncertain threat, our government made a series 
of hasty decisions.  I believe that many of these decisions were motivated 
by a sincere desire to protect the American people.  But I also believe 
that all too often our government made decisions based on fear rather than 
foresight; that all too often our government trimmed facts and evidence to 
fit ideological predispositions.  Instead of strategically applying our 
power and our principles, too often we set those principles aside as 
luxuries that we could no longer afford.  And during this season of fear, 
too many of us -- Democrats and Republicans, politicians, journalists, and 
citizens -- fell silent.

In other words, we went off course.  And this is not my assessment alone.  
It was an assessment that was shared by the American people who nominated 
candidates for President from both major parties who, despite our many 
differences, called for a new approach -- one that rejected torture and one 
that recognized the imperative of closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay.

Now let me be clear:  We are indeed at war with al Qaeda and its 
affiliates.  We do need to update our institutions to deal with this 
threat.  But we must do so with an abiding confidence in the rule of law 
and due process; in checks and balances and accountability.  For reasons 
that I will explain, the decisions that were made over the last eight years 
established an ad hoc legal approach for fighting terrorism that was 
neither effective nor sustainable -- a framework that failed to rely on our 
legal traditions and time-tested institutions, and that failed to use our 
values as a compass.  And that's why I took several steps upon taking 
office to better protect the American people.

First, I banned the use of so-called enhanced interrogation techniques by 
the United States of America.

I know some have argued that brutal methods like waterboarding were 
necessary to keep us safe.  I could not disagree more.  As 
Commander-in-Chief, I see the intelligence.  I bear the responsibility for 
keeping this country safe.  And I categorically reject the assertion that 
these are the most effective means of interrogation.  What's more, they 
undermine the rule of law.  They alienate us in the world.  They serve as a 
recruitment tool for terrorists, and increase the will of our enemies to 
fight us, while decreasing the will of others to work with America.  They 
risk the lives of our troops by making it less likely that others will 
surrender to them in battle, and more likely that Americans will be 
mistreated if they are captured.  In short, they did not advance our war 
and counterterrorism efforts -- they undermined them, and that is why I 
ended them once and for all.

Now, I should add, the arguments against these techniques did not originate 
from my administration.  As Senator McCain once said, torture "serves as a 
great propaganda tool for those who recruit people to fight against us."  
And even under President Bush, there was recognition among members of his 
own administration -- including a Secretary of State, other senior 
officials, and many in the military and intelligence community -- that 
those who argued for these tactics were on the wrong side of the debate, 
and the wrong side of history.  That's why we must leave these methods 
where they belong -- in the past.  They are not who we are, and they are 
not America.

The second decision that I made was to order the closing of the prison camp 
at Guantanamo Bay.

For over seven years, we have detained hundreds of people at Guantanamo.  
During that time, the system of military commissions that were in place at 
Guantanamo succeeded in convicting a grand total of three suspected 
terrorists.  Let me repeat that:  three convictions in over seven years.  
Instead of bringing terrorists to justice, efforts at prosecution met 
setback after setback, cases lingered on, and in 2006 the Supreme Court 
invalidated the entire system.  Meanwhile, over 525 detainees were released 
from Guantanamo under not my administration, under the previous 
administration.  Let me repeat that:  Two-thirds of the detainees were 
released before I took office and ordered the closure of Guantanamo.

There is also no question that Guantanamo set back the moral authority that 
is America's strongest currency in the world.  Instead of building a 
durable framework for the struggle against al Qaeda that drew upon our 
deeply held values and traditions, our government was defending positions 
that undermined the rule of law.  In fact, part of the rationale for 
establishing Guantanamo in the first place was the misplaced notion that a 
prison there would be beyond the law -- a proposition that the Supreme 
Court soundly rejected.  Meanwhile, instead of serving as a tool to counter 
terrorism, Guantanamo became a symbol that helped al Qaeda recruit 
terrorists to its cause.  Indeed, the existence of Guantanamo likely 
created more terrorists around the world than it ever detained.

So the record is clear:  Rather than keeping us safer, the prison at 
Guantanamo has weakened American national security.  It is a rallying cry 
for our enemies.  It sets back the willingness of our allies to work with 
us in fighting an enemy that operates in scores of countries.  By any 
measure, the costs of keeping it open far exceed the complications involved 
in closing it.  That's why I argued that it should be closed throughout my 
campaign, and that is why I ordered it closed within one year.

The third decision that I made was to order a review of all pending cases 
at Guantanamo.  I knew when I ordered Guantanamo closed that it would be 
difficult and complex.  There are 240 people there who have now spent years 
in legal limbo.  In dealing with this situation, we don't have the luxury 
of starting from scratch.  We're cleaning up something that is, quite 
simply, a mess -- a misguided experiment that has left in its wake a flood 
of legal challenges that my administration is forced to deal with on a 
constant, almost daily basis, and it consumes the time of government 
officials whose time should be spent on better protecting our country.

Indeed, the legal challenges that have sparked so much debate in recent 
weeks here in Washington would be taking place whether or not I decided to 
close Guantanamo.  For example, the court order to release 17 Uighurs -- 17 
Uighur detainees took place last fall, when George Bush was President.  The 
Supreme Court that invalidated the system of prosecution at Guantanamo in 
2006 was overwhelmingly appointed by Republican Presidents -- not wild-eyed 
liberals.  In other words, the problem of what to do with Guantanamo 
detainees was not caused by my decision to close the facility; the problem 
exists because of the decision to open Guantanamo in the first place. 

Now let me be blunt.  There are no neat or easy answers here.  I wish there 
were.  But I can tell you that the wrong answer is to pretend like this 
problem will go away if we maintain an unsustainable status quo.  As 
President, I refuse to allow this problem to fester.  I refuse to pass it 
on to somebody else.  It is my responsibility to solve the problem.  Our 
security interests will not permit us to delay.  Our courts won't allow it. 
 And neither should our conscience.

Now, over the last several weeks, we've seen a return of the politicization 
of these issues that have characterized the last several years.  I'm an 
elected official; I understand these problems arouse passions and concerns. 
 They should.  We're confronting some of the most complicated questions 
that a democracy can face.  But I have no interest in spending all of our 
time relitigating the policies of the last eight years.  I'll leave that to 
others.  I want to solve these problems, and I want to solve them together 
as Americans.

And we will be ill-served by some of the fear-mongering that emerges 
whenever we discuss this issue.  Listening to the recent debate, I've heard 
words that, frankly, are calculated to scare people rather than educate 
them; words that have more to do with politics than protecting our country. 
 So I want to take this opportunity to lay out what we are doing, and how 
we intend to resolve these outstanding issues.  I will explain how each 
action that we are taking will help build a framework that protects both 
the American people and the values that we hold most dear.  And I'll focus 
on two broad areas:  first, issues relating to Guantanamo and our detention 
policy; but, second, I also want to discuss issues relating to security and 
transparency.

Now, let me begin by disposing of one argument as plainly as I can:  We are 
not going to release anyone if it would endanger our national security, nor 
will we release detainees within the United States who endanger the 
American people.  Where demanded by justice and national security, we will 
seek to transfer some detainees to the same type of facilities in which we 
hold all manner of dangerous and violent criminals within our borders -- 
namely, highly secure prisons that ensure the public safety. 

As we make these decisions, bear in mind the following face:  Nobody has 
ever escaped from one of our federal, supermax prisons, which hold hundreds 
of convicted terrorists.  As Republican Lindsey Graham said, the idea that 
we cannot find a place to securely house 250-plus detainees within the 
United States is not rational.

We are currently in the process of reviewing each of the detainee cases at 
Guantanamo to determine the appropriate policy for dealing with them.  And 
as we do so, we are acutely aware that under the last administration, 
detainees were released and, in some cases, returned to the battlefield.  
That's why we are doing away with the poorly planned, haphazard approach 
that let those detainees go in the past.  Instead we are treating these 
cases with the care and attention that the law requires and that our 
security demands.

Now, going forward, these cases will fall into five distinct categories.

First, whenever feasible, we will try those who have violated American 
criminal laws in federal courts -- courts provided for by the United States 
Constitution.  Some have derided our federal courts as incapable of 
handling the trials of terrorists.  They are wrong.  Our courts and our 
juries, our citizens, are tough enough to convict terrorists.  The record 
makes that clear.  Ramzi Yousef tried to blow up the World Trade Center.  
He was convicted in our courts and is serving a life sentence in U.S. 
prisons.  Zacarias Moussaoui has been identified as the 20th 9/11 hijacker. 
 He was convicted in our courts, and he too is serving a life sentence in 
prison.  If we can try those terrorists in our courts and hold them in our 
prisons, then we can do the same with detainees from Guantanamo.

Recently, we prosecuted and received a guilty plea from a detainee, 
al-Marri, in federal court after years of legal confusion.  We're preparing 
to transfer another detainee to the Southern District Court of New York, 
where he will face trial on charges related to the 1998 bombings of our 
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania -- bombings that killed over 200 people.  
Preventing this detainee from coming to our shores would prevent his trial 
and conviction.  And after over a decade, it is time to finally see that 
justice is served, and that is what we intend to do.

The second category of cases involves detainees who violate the laws of war 
and are therefore best tried through military commissions.  Military 
commissions have a history in the United States dating back to George 
Washington and the Revolutionary War.  They are an appropriate venue for 
trying detainees for violations of the laws of war.  They allow for the 
protection of sensitive sources and methods of intelligence-gathering; they 
allow for the safety and security of participants; and for the presentation 
of evidence gathered from the battlefield that cannot always be effectively 
presented in federal courts.

Now, some have suggested that this represents a reversal on my part.  They 
should look at the record.  In 2006, I did strongly oppose legislation 
proposed by the Bush administration and passed by the Congress because it 
failed to establish a legitimate legal framework, with the kind of 
meaningful due process rights for the accused that could stand up on 
appeal.

I said at that time, however, that I supported the use of military 
commissions to try detainees, provided there were several reforms, and in 
fact there were some bipartisan efforts to achieve those reforms.  Those 
are the reforms that we are now making.  Instead of using the flawed 
commissions of the last seven years, my administration is bringing our 
commissions in line with the rule of law.  We will no longer permit the use 
of evidence -- as evidence statements that have been obtained using cruel, 
inhuman, or degrading interrogation methods.  We will no longer place the 
burden to prove that hearsay is unreliable on the opponent of the hearsay.  
And we will give detainees greater latitude in selecting their own counsel, 
and more protections if they refuse to testify.  These reforms, among 
others, will make our military commissions a more credible and effective 
means of administering justice, and I will work with Congress and members 
of both parties, as well as legal authorities across the political 
spectrum, on legislation to ensure that these commissions are fair, 
legitimate, and effective.

The third category of detainees includes those who have been ordered 
released by the courts.  Now, let me repeat what I said earlier:  This has 
nothing to do with my decision to close Guantanamo.  It has to do with the 
rule of law.  The courts have spoken.  They have found that there's no 
legitimate reason to hold 21 of the people currently held at Guantanamo.  
Nineteen of these findings took place before I was sworn into office.  I 
cannot ignore these rulings because as President, I too am bound by the 
law.  The United States is a nation of laws and so we must abide by these 
rulings.

The fourth category of cases involves detainees who we have determined can 
be transferred safely to another country.  So far, our review team has 
approved 50 detainees for transfer.  And my administration is in ongoing 
discussions with a number of other countries about the transfer of 
detainees to their soil for detention and rehabilitation.

Now, finally, there remains the question of detainees at Guantanamo who 
cannot be prosecuted yet who pose a clear danger to the American people.  
And I have to be honest here -- this is the toughest single issue that we 
will face.  We're going to exhaust every avenue that we have to prosecute 
those at Guantanamo who pose a danger to our country.  But even when this 
process is complete, there may be a number of people who cannot be 
prosecuted for past crimes, in some cases because evidence may be tainted, 
but who nonetheless pose a threat to the security of the United States.  
Examples of that threat include people who've received extensive explosives 
training at al Qaeda training camps, or commanded Taliban troops in battle, 
or expressed their allegiance to Osama bin Laden, or otherwise made it 
clear that they want to kill Americans.  These are people who, in effect, 
remain at war with the United States.

Let me repeat:  I am not going to release individuals who endanger the 
American people.  Al Qaeda terrorists and their affiliates are at war with 
the United States, and those that we capture -- like other prisoners of war 
-- must be prevented from attacking us again.  Having said that, we must 
recognize that these detention policies cannot be unbounded.  They can't be 
based simply on what I or the executive branch decide alone.  That's why my 
administration has begun to reshape the standards that apply to ensure that 
they are in line with the rule of law. We must have clear, defensible, and 
lawful standards for those who fall into this category.  We must have fair 
procedures so that we don't make mistakes.  We must have a thorough process 
of periodic review, so that any prolonged detention is carefully evaluated 
and justified.

I know that creating such a system poses unique challenges. And other 
countries have grappled with this question; now, so must we.  But I want to 
be very clear that our goal is to construct a legitimate legal framework 
for the remaining Guantanamo detainees that cannot be transferred.  Our 
goal is not to avoid a legitimate legal framework.  In our constitutional 
system, prolonged detention should not be the decision of any one man.  If 
and when we determine that the United States must hold individuals to keep 
them from carrying out an act of war, we will do so within a system that 
involves judicial and congressional oversight.  And so, going forward, my 
administration will work with Congress to develop an appropriate legal 
regime so that our efforts are consistent with our values and our 
Constitution.

Now, as our efforts to close Guantanamo move forward, I know that the 
politics in Congress will be difficult.  These are issues that are fodder 
for 30-second commercials.  You can almost picture the direct mail pieces 
that emerge from any vote on this issue -- designed to frighten the 
population.  I get it.  But if we continue to make decisions within a 
climate of fear, we will make more mistakes.  And if we refuse to deal with 
these issues today, then I guarantee you that they will be an albatross 
around our efforts to combat terrorism in the future. 

I have confidence that the American people are more interested in doing 
what is right to protect this country than in political posturing.  I am 
not the only person in this city who swore an oath to uphold the 
Constitution -- so did each and every member of Congress.  And together we 
have a responsibility to enlist our values in the effort to secure our 
people, and to leave behind the legacy that makes it easier for future 
Presidents to keep this country safe.

Now, let me touch on a second set of issues that relate to security and 
transparency. 

National security requires a delicate balance.  One the one hand, our 
democracy depends on transparency.  On the other hand, some information 
must be protected from public disclosure for the sake of our security -- 
for instance, the movement of our troops, our intelligence-gathering, or 
the information we have about a terrorist organization and its affiliates.  
In these and other cases, lives are at stake.

Now, several weeks ago, as part of an ongoing court case, I released memos 
issued by the previous administration's Office of Legal Counsel.  I did not 
do this because I disagreed with the enhanced interrogation techniques that 
those memos authorized, and I didn't release the documents because I 
rejected their legal rationales -- although I do on both counts.  I 
released the memos because the existence of that approach to interrogation 
was already widely known, the Bush administration had acknowledged its 
existence, and I had already banned those methods.  The argument that 
somehow by releasing those memos we are providing terrorists with 
information about how they will be interrogated makes no sense.  We will 
not be interrogating terrorists using that approach.  That approach is now 
prohibited.

In short, I released these memos because there was no overriding reason to 
protect them.  And the ensuing debate has helped the American people better 
understand how these interrogation methods came to be authorized and used.

On the other hand, I recently opposed the release of certain photographs 
that were taken of detainees by U.S. personnel between 2002 and 2004.  
Individuals who violated standards of behavior in these photos have been 
investigated and they have been held accountable.  There was and is no 
debate as to whether what is reflected in those photos is wrong.  Nothing 
has been concealed to absolve perpetrators of crimes.  However, it was my 
judgment -- informed by my national security team -- that releasing these 
photos would inflame anti-American opinion and allow our enemies to paint 
U.S. troops with a broad, damning, and inaccurate brush, thereby 
endangering them in theaters of war.

In short, there is a clear and compelling reason to not release these 
particular photos.  There are nearly 200,000 Americans who are serving in 
harm's way, and I have a solemn responsibility for their safety as 
Commander-in-Chief.  Nothing would be gained by the release of these photos 
that matters more than the lives of our young men and women serving in 
harm's way.

Now, in the press's mind and in some of the public's mind, these two cases 
are contradictory.  They are not to me.  In each of these cases, I had to 
strike the right balance between transparency and national security.  And 
this balance brings with it a precious responsibility.  There's no doubt 
that the American people have seen this balance tested over the last 
several years.  In the images from Abu Ghraib and the brutal interrogation 
techniques made public long before I was President, the American people 
learned of actions taken in their name that bear no resemblance to the 
ideals that generations of Americans have fought for.  And whether it was 
the run-up to the Iraq war or the revelation of secret programs, Americans 
often felt like part of the story had been unnecessarily withheld from 
them.  And that caused suspicion to build up.  And that leads to a thirst 
for accountability.

I understand that.  I ran for President promising transparency, and I meant 
what I said.  And that's why, whenever possible, my administration will 
make all information available to the American people so that they can make 
informed judgments and hold us accountable.  But I have never argued -- and 
I never will -- that our most sensitive national security matters should 
simply be an open book.  I will never abandon -- and will vigorously defend 
-- the necessity of classification to defend our troops at war, to protect 
sources and methods, and to safeguard confidential actions that keep the 
American people safe.  Here's the difference though:  Whenever we cannot 
release certain information to the public for valid national security 
reasons, I will insist that there is oversight of my actions -- by Congress 
or by the courts.

We're currently launching a review of current policies by all those 
agencies responsible for the classification of documents to determine where 
reforms are possible, and to assure that the other branches of government 
will be in a position to review executive branch decisions on these 
matters.  Because in our system of checks and balances, someone must always 
watch over the watchers -- especially when it comes to sensitive 
administration -- information.

Now, along these same lines, my administration is also confronting 
challenges to what is known as the "state secrets" privilege.  This is a 
doctrine that allows the government to challenge legal cases involving 
secret programs.  It's been used by many past Presidents -- Republican and 
Democrat -- for many decades.  And while this principle is absolutely 
necessary in some circumstances to protect national security, I am 
concerned that it has been over-used.  It is also currently the subject of 
a wide range of lawsuits.  So let me lay out some principles here.  We must 
not protect information merely because it reveals the violation of a law or 
embarrassment to the government.  And that's why my administration is 
nearing completion of a thorough review of this practice.

And we plan to embrace several principles for reform.  We will apply a 
stricter legal test to material that can be protected under the state 
secrets privilege.  We will not assert the privilege in court without first 
following our own formal process, including review by a Justice Department 
committee and the personal approval of the Attorney General.  And each year 
we will voluntarily report to Congress when we have invoked the privilege 
and why because, as I said before, there must be proper oversight over our 
actions.

On all these matters related to the disclosure of sensitive information, I 
wish I could say that there was some simple formula out there to be had.  
There is not.  These often involve tough calls, involve competing concerns, 
and they require a surgical approach.  But the common thread that runs 
through all of my decisions is simple:  We will safeguard what we must to 
protect the American people, but we will also ensure the accountability and 
oversight that is the hallmark of our constitutional system.  I will never 
hide the truth because it's uncomfortable.  I will deal with Congress and 
the courts as co-equal branches of government.  I will tell the American 
people what I know and don't know, and when I release something publicly or 
keep something secret, I will tell you why.

Now, in all the areas that I've discussed today, the policies that I've 
proposed represent a new direction from the last eight years.  To protect 
the American people and our values, we've banned enhanced interrogation 
techniques.  We are closing the prison at Guantanamo.  We are reforming 
military commissions, and we will pursue a new legal regime to detain 
terrorists.  We are declassifying more information and embracing more 
oversight of our actions, and we're narrowing our use of the state secrets 
privilege.  These are dramatic changes that will put our approach to 
national security on a surer, safer, and more sustainable footing.  Their 
implementation will take time, but they will get done.

There's a core principle that we will apply to all of our actions.  Even as 
we clean up the mess at Guantanamo, we will constantly reevaluate our 
approach, subject our decisions to review from other branches of 
government, as well as the public.  We seek the strongest and most 
sustainable legal framework for addressing these issues in the long term -- 
not to serve immediate politics, but to do what's right over the long term. 
 By doing that we can leave behind a legacy that outlasts my 
administration, my presidency, that endures for the next President and the 
President after that -- a legacy that protects the American people and 
enjoys a broad legitimacy at home and abroad.

Now, this is what I mean when I say that we need to focus on the future.  I 
recognize that many still have a strong desire to focus on the past.  When 
it comes to actions of the last eight years, passions are high.  Some 
Americans are angry; others want to re-fight debates that have been 
settled, in some cases debates that they have lost.  I know that these 
debates lead directly, in some cases, to a call for a fuller accounting, 
perhaps through an independent commission.

I've opposed the creation of such a commission because I believe that our 
existing democratic institutions are strong enough to deliver 
accountability.  The Congress can review abuses of our values, and there 
are ongoing inquiries by the Congress into matters like enhanced 
interrogation techniques.  The Department of Justice and our courts can 
work through and punish any violations of our laws or miscarriages of 
justice.

It's no secret there is a tendency in Washington to spend our time pointing 
fingers at one another.  And it's no secret that our media culture feeds 
the impulse that lead to a good fight and good copy.  But nothing will 
contribute more than that than a extended relitigation of the last eight 
years.  Already, we've seen how that kind of effort only leads those in 
Washington to different sides to laying blame.  It can distract us from 
focusing our time, our efforts, and our politics on the challenges of the 
future.

We see that, above all, in the recent debate -- how the recent debate has 
obscured the truth and sends people into opposite and absolutist ends.  On 
the one side of the spectrum, there are those who make little allowance for 
the unique challenges posed by terrorism, and would almost never put 
national security over transparency.  And on the other end of the spectrum, 
there are those who embrace a view that can be summarized in two words:  
"Anything goes."  Their arguments suggest that the ends of fighting 
terrorism can be used to justify any means, and that the President should 
have blanket authority to do whatever he wants -- provided it is a 
President with whom they agree.

Both sides may be sincere in their views, but neither side is right.  The 
American people are not absolutist, and they don't elect us to impose a 
rigid ideology on our problems.  They know that we need not sacrifice our 
security for our values, nor sacrifice our values for our security, so long 
as we approach difficult questions with honesty and care and a dose of 
common sense.  That, after all, is the unique genius of America.  That's 
the challenge laid down by our Constitution.  That has been the source of 
our strength through the ages.  That's what makes the United States of 
America different as a nation.

I can stand here today, as President of the United States, and say without 
exception or equivocation that we do not torture, and that we will 
vigorously protect our people while forging a strong and durable framework 
that allows us to fight terrorism while abiding by the rule of law.  Make 
no mistake:  If we fail to turn the page on the approach that was taken 
over the past several years, then I will not be able to say that as 
President.  And if we cannot stand for our core values, then we are not 
keeping faith with the documents that are enshrined in this hall.

The Framers who drafted the Constitution could not have foreseen the 
challenges that have unfolded over the last 222 years.  But our 
Constitution has endured through secession and civil rights, through World 
War and Cold War, because it provides a foundation of principles that can 
be applied pragmatically; it provides a compass that can help us find our 
way.  It hasn't always been easy.  We are an imperfect people.  Every now 
and then, there are those who think that America's safety and success 
requires us to walk away from the sacred principles enshrined in this 
building.  And we hear such voices today.  But over the long haul the 
American people have resisted that temptation.  And though we've made our 
share of mistakes, required some course corrections, ultimately we have 
held fast to the principles that have been the source of our strength and a 
beacon to the world.

Now this generation faces a great test in the specter of terrorism.  And 
unlike the Civil War or World War II, we can't count on a surrender 
ceremony to bring this journey to an end.  Right now, in distant training 
camps and in crowded cities, there are people plotting to take American 
lives.  That will be the case a year from now, five years from now, and -- 
in all probability -- 10 years from now.  Neither I nor anyone can stand 
here today and say that there will not be another terrorist attack that 
takes American lives.  But I can say with certainty that my administration 
-- along with our extraordinary troops and the patriotic men and women who 
defend our national security -- will do everything in our power to keep the 
American people safe.  And I do know with certainty that we can defeat al 
Qaeda.  Because the terrorists can only succeed if they swell their ranks 
and alienate America from our allies, and they will never be able to do 
that if we stay true to who we are, if we forge tough and durable 
approaches to fighting terrorism that are anchored in our timeless ideals.  
This must be our common purpose.

I ran for President because I believe that we cannot solve the challenges 
of our time unless we solve them together.  We will not be safe if we see 
national security as a wedge that divides America -- it can and must be a 
cause that unites us as one people and as one nation.  We've done so before 
in times that were more perilous than ours.  We will do so once again.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Pete Souza) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.