 

 

Barack Obama

American Graduation Initiative Address

delivered 14 July 2009, Macomb Community College, Warren, Michigan

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Hello, Michigan! Thank you.  Thank you so much.  First of all, give Joe a 
big round of applause for the wonderful introduction. We've got some 
special guests here -- now, if everybody has chairs, go ahead and use them. 
Feel free.  We've got some special guests here today that I just want to 
acknowledge.  All of you are special, but these folks I want to make sure 
that you have a chance to see them.

First of all, one of the best governors in the country, please give 
Jennifer Granholm a big round of applause. Lieutenant Governor John Cherry 
-- give John a big round of applause.  One of my favorite people, a former 
colleague of mine, still just a fighter on behalf of working families each 
and every day -- Senator Debbie Stabenow.  We've got Speaker of the House, 
Andy Dillon, in the house.  We've got a lot of other local elected 
officials, and I just want to thank them.

A couple of people who are missing:  Carl Levin, who is doing great work.  
He's in the Senate right now fighting on behalf of a bill to make sure that 
we're not loading up a bunch of necessary defense spending with unnecessary 
defense spending.  So he's the point person on it.  The only reason he's 
not here is because he is working alongside the administration to get this 
bill done.  Please give him a big round of applause.  Congressman Sandy 
Levin, also working hard on your behalf each and every day, but is not here 
today.  I want to go ahead and acknowledge the new mayor, since he's the 
new mayor -- Mayor Dave Bing, great ball player. My game is a little like 
Dave Bing's -- except I don't have the jump shot or the speed or the ball 
handling skills -- or the endurance.  Also don't have the afro.  Don't 
think I forgot that, Dave.  I remember. I remember that.

I also want to acknowledge that we've got the Executive Director of the 
White House Council on Auto Communities and Workers, who's working hard, 
has a direct line to me each and every day.  He's traveling constantly back 
here -- Ed Montgomery.  Please give Ed a big round of applause.

And the Chairman of the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indian 
Tribe, Derek Bailey is here.  Please give Derek a big round of applause.

And finally, the president of the college where we are here, Jim Jacobs.  
Give Jim Jacobs a big round of applause.

And those of you who I've missed, you know how grateful I am that you're 
here.  And thank you all.  It is wonderful to be back at Macomb.  It was 
terrific visiting this campus as a candidate, but I have to admit, it's 
even better visiting as a President.

Now, this is a place where anyone -- anyone with a desire to learn and to 
grow, to take their career to a new level or start a new career altogether 
-- has the opportunity to pursue their dream, right here in Macomb.  This 
is a place where people of all ages and all backgrounds -- even in the face 
of obstacles, even in the face of very difficult personal challenges -- can 
take a chance on a brighter future for themselves and their families.

There are folks like Joe, who just told us his story.  When Joe lost his 
job, he decided to take advantage of assistance for displaced workers.  He 
earned his associate degree here at Macomb, and with a pretty impressive 
GPA, I might add.  And with the help of that degree, Joe found a new job, 
working for the new Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital as a maintenance 
mechanic, using the skills he learned here and the talents that he brought 
to make a fresh start.

There are workers like Kellie Kulman, who is here today. Where's Kellie?  
Raise your hand, Kellie.  Where are you?  There you are.  There's Kellie 
right there.  Kellie is a UAW worker at a Ford plant in Sterling Heights, 
Michigan.  She used to drive a fork lift, right?  But then she decided to 
train here at Macomb for a job that required new skills, and now she's an 
apprentice pipe fitter.  It's a telling example:  Even as this painful 
restructuring takes place in our auto industry, workers are seeking out 
training for new auto jobs.  And Joe and Kellie's story make clear what all 
of you know:  Community colleges are an essential part of our recovery in 
the present -- and our prosperity in the future.  This place can make the 
future better, not just for these individuals but for America.

Now, since this recession began 20 months ago, 6.5 million Americans have 
lost their jobs, and I don't have to tell you Michigan in particular has 
been hard-hit.  Now, I -- the statistics are daunting.  The whole country 
now, the unemployment rate is approaching 10 percent.  Here in Michigan, 
it's about five points higher.  And new jobs of course are going to be 
coming out and we're going to see continuing job loss even as the economy 
is beginning to stabilize.

Now, that's not just abstractions.  Those just aren't numbers on a page.  
Those are extraordinary hardships, tough times, for families and 
individuals who've worked hard all their lives and have done the right 
things all their lives.  If you haven't lost a job, chances are you know 
somebody who has:  a family member, a neighbor, a friend, a coworker.  And 
you know that as difficult as the financial struggle can be, the sense of 
loss is about more than just a paycheck, because most of us define 
ourselves by the work we do.  That's part of what it means to be an 
American.  We take pride in work -- that sense that you're contributing, 
supporting your family, meeting your responsibilities.  People need work 
not just for income, but because it makes you part of that fabric of a 
community that's so important.  And so when you lose your job, and when 
entire communities are losing thousands of jobs, that's a heavy burden, 
that's a heavy weight.

Now, my administration has a job to do, as well, and that job is to get 
this economy back on its feet.  That's my job. And it's a job I gladly 
accept.  I love these folks who helped get us in this mess and then 
suddenly say, well, this is Obama's economy.  That's fine.  Give it to me.  
My job is to solve problems, not to stand on the sidelines and harp and 
gripe.

So I welcome the job.  I want the responsibility.  And I know that -- let's 
just take an example.  Many questioned our efforts to help save GM and 
Chrysler from collapse earlier this year.  Their feeling was these 
companies were driven to the brink by poor management decisions over a long 
period of time, and like any business they should be held accountable for 
those decisions.  I agree that they should be held accountable.  But I also 
recognize the historic significance and economic prominence of these 
companies in communities all across Michigan and all across the country.

I thought about the hundreds of thousands of Americans whose livelihoods 
are still connected to the American auto industry, and the impact on an 
already struggling economy, especially right here in Michigan.  So I said 
that if Chrysler and GM were willing to fundamentally restructure their 
businesses and make the hard choices necessary to become competitive now 
and in the future, it was a process worth supporting.

Now today, after a painful period of soul-searching and sacrifice, both GM 
and Chrysler have emerged from bankruptcy.  Remember, folks said there was 
no way they could do it?  They've gotten it done already, in record time -- 
far faster than anybody thought possible.  They've got a leaner structure, 
they've got new management, and a viable vision of how to compete and win 
in the 21st century.  Those sacrifices were shared among all the 
stakeholders:  workers and management; creditors and shareholders; retirees 
and communities.  And together, they've made the rebirth of Chrysler and GM 
possible.

It was the right thing to do.

But even with this positive news, the hard truth is, is that some of the 
jobs that have been lost in the auto industry and elsewhere won't be coming 
back.  They're the casualties of a changing economy.  In some cases, just 
increased productivity in the plants themselves means that some jobs aren't 
going to return.  And that only underscores the importance of generating 
new businesses and new industries to replace the ones that we've lost, and 
of preparing our workers to fill the jobs they create.  For even before 
this recession hit, we were faced with an economy that was simply not 
creating or sustaining enough new, well-paying jobs.

So now is the time to change all that.  What we face is far more than a 
passing crisis.  This is a transformative moment.  And in this moment we 
must do what other generations have done.  It's not the time to shrink from 
the challenges we face or put off tough decisions.  That's what Washington 
has done for decades, and it's exactly why I ran for President -- to change 
that mindset.  Now is the time to build a firmer, stronger foundation for 
growth that will not only withstand future economic storms, but that will 
help us thrive and compete in a global economy.  To build that foundation, 
we have to slow the growth of health care costs that are driving us into 
debt.  We're going to have to do that, and there's going to be a major 
debate over the next three weeks.  And don't be fooled by folks trying to 
scare you, saying we can't change the health care system.  We have no 
choice but to change the health care system, because right now it's broken 
for too many Americans.

We're going to have to make tough choices necessary to bring down deficits. 
 But don't let folks fool you -- the best way to start bringing down 
deficits is to get control of our health care costs, which is why we need 
reform.

Now is the time to create the jobs of the future by growing industries, 
including a new clean energy economy.  And Jennifer Granholm has been all 
on top of this as the governor of Michigan.  She is bring cleaning [sic] 
energy jobs right here to Michigan, and we've got to support her in that 
effort.

I want Michigan to build windmills and wind turbines and solar panels and 
biofuel plants and energy-efficient light bulbs and weatherize all our -- 
because, Michigan, you know bad weather.  So you can be all on top of 
weatherizing.  You need to weatherize.  I know about that in Chicago too.

But we also have to ensure that we're educating and preparing our people 
for the new jobs of the 21st century.  We've got to prepare our people with 
the skills they need to compete in this global economy. Time and again, 
when we placed our bet for the future on education, we have prospered as a 
result -- by tapping the incredible innovative and generative potential of 
a skilled American workforce.  That's what happened when President Lincoln 
signed into law legislation creating the land grant colleges, which not 
only transformed higher education, but also our entire economy.  That's 
what took place when President Roosevelt signed the GI Bill which helped 
educate a generation, and ushered in an era of unprecedented prosperity.  
That was the foundation for the American middle class.

And that's why, at the start of my administration I set a goal for America: 
 By 2020, this nation will once again have the highest proportion of 
college graduates in the world.  We used to have that.  We're going to have 
it again. And we've begun to take historic steps to achieve this goal.  
Already we've increased Pell grants by $500. We've created a $2,500 tax 
credit for four years of college tuition. We've simplified student aid 
applications and ensured that aid is not based on the income of a job that 
you just lost. A new GI Bill of Rights for the 21st century is beginning to 
help soldiers coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan to begin a new life -- 
in a new economy.  And the recovery plan has helped close state budget 
shortfalls -- which put enormous pressure on public universities and 
community colleges -- at the same time making historic investments in 
school libraries and classrooms and facilities all across America.  So 
we've already taken some steps that are building the foundation for a 21st 
century education system here in America, one that will allow us to compete 
with China and India and everybody else all around the world.

But today I'm announcing the most significant down payment yet on reaching 
the goal of having the highest college graduation rate of any nation in the 
world.  We're going to achieve this in the next 10 years.  And it's called 
the American Graduation Initiative.  It will reform and strengthen 
community colleges like this one from coast to coast so they get the 
resources that students and schools need -- and the results workers and 
businesses demand.  Through this plan, we seek to help an additional 5 
million Americans earn degrees and certificates in the next decade -- 5 
million.

Not since the passage of the original GI Bill and the work of President 
Truman's Commission on Higher Education -- which helped to double the 
number of community colleges and increase by seven-fold enrollment in those 
colleges -- have we taken such a historic step on behalf of community 
colleges in America.  And let me be clear:  We pay for this plan -- this 
isn't adding to the deficit; we're paying for this plan -- by ending the 
wasteful subsidies we currently provide to banks and private lenders for 
student loans.  That will save tens of billions of dollars over the next 10 
years.  Instead of lining the pockets of special interests, it's time this 
money went towards the interests of higher education in America.  That's 
what my administration is committed to doing.

Now, I know that for a long time there have been politicians who have 
spoken of training as a silver bullet and college as a cure-all.  It's not, 
and we know that.  I can't tell you how many workers who've been laid off, 
you talk to them about training and they say, "Training for what?"  So I 
understand the frustrations that a lot of people have, especially if the 
training is not well designed for the specific jobs that are being created 
out there.

But we know that in the coming years, jobs requiring at least an associate 
degree are projected to grow twice as fast as jobs requiring no college 
experience.  We will not fill those jobs -- or even keep those jobs here in 
America -- without the training offered by community colleges.  That's why 
I want to applaud Governor Granholm for the No Worker Left Behind program.  
It's providing up to two years' worth of free tuition at community colleges 
and universities across the state.  The rest of the country should learn 
from the effort.

This is training to become a medical technician, or a health IT worker, or 
a lab specialist, or a nurse.  In fact, 59 percent of all new nurses come 
from community colleges.  This is training to install solar panels and 
build those wind turbines we were talking about and develop a smarter 
electricity grid.  And this is the kind of education that more and more 
Americans are using to improve their skills and broaden their horizons.  
Many young people are saving money by spending two years at community 
college before heading to a four-year college.  And more workers who have 
lost their jobs -- or fear losing a job -- are seeking an edge at schools 
like this one.

At the same time, community colleges are under increasing pressure to cap 
enrollments and scrap courses and cut costs as states and municipalities 
face budget shortfalls.  And this is in addition to the challenges you face 
in the best of times, as these schools receive far less funding per student 
than typical four-year colleges and universities.  So community colleges 
are an undervalued asset in our country.  Not only is that not right, it's 
not smart.  That's why I've asked Dr. Jill Biden -- who happens to be a 
relation of the Vice President, Joe Biden, but who is also a community 
college educator for more than 16 years -- to promote community colleges 
and help us make community colleges stronger.  And that's why we're putting 
in place this American Graduation Initiative.

Let me describe for you the specifics of what we're going to do.  Number 
one, we will offer competitive grants, challenging community colleges to 
pursue innovative, results-oriented strategies in exchange for federal 
funding.  We'll fund programs that connect students looking for jobs with 
businesses that are looking to hire.  We'll challenge these schools to find 
new and better ways to help students catch up on the basics, like math and 
science, that are essential to our competitiveness.  We'll put colleges and 
employers together to create programs that match curricula in the classroom 
with the needs of the boardroom.

These are all kinds of -- there are all kinds of examples of what's 
possible.  We've seen Cisco, for example, working with community colleges 
to prepare students and workers for jobs ranging from work in broadband to 
health IT.  We know that the most successful community colleges are those 
that partner with the private sector.  So we want to encourage more 
companies to work with schools to build these type of relationships.  That 
way, when somebody goes through a training program, they know that there's 
a job at the end of that training.

We'll also create a new research center with a simple mission:  to measure 
what works and what doesn't.  All too often, we don't know what happens 
when somebody walks out of a classroom and onto the factory floor or into 
the library or -- the laboratory or the office.  And that means businesses 
often can't be sure what a degree is really worth.  And schools themselves 
don't have the facts to make informed choices about which programs receive 
-- achieve results and which programs don't.  And this is important, not 
just for businesses and colleges, but for students and workers, as well.  
If a parent is going to spend time in the classroom and away from his or 
her family -- especially after a long day at work -- that degree really has 
to mean something.  They have to know that when they get that degree, this 
is going to help advance their goals.  If a worker is going to spend two 
years training to enter into a whole new profession, that certificate has 
to mean that he or she is ready, and that businesses are ready to hire.

In addition, we want to propose new funding for innovative strategies that 
promote not just enrollment in a community college program, but completion 
of that program.  See, more than half -- more than half of all students who 
enter community college to earn an associate degree, or transfer to a 
four-year school to earn a bachelor's degree, unfortunately fail to reach 
their goal.  That's not just a waste of a valuable resource, that's a 
tragedy for these students.  Oftentimes they've taken out debt and they 
don't get the degree, but they still have to pay back the debt.  And it's a 
disaster for our economy.

So we'll fund programs that track student progress inside and outside the 
classroom.  Let's figure out what's keeping students from crossing that 
finish line, and then put in place reforms that will remove those barriers. 
 Maybe it becomes too difficult for a parent to be away from home, or too 
expensive for a waiter or a nurse to miss a shift.  Maybe a young student 
just isn't sure if her education will lead to employment.  The point is, we 
need to figure out solutions for these kinds of challenges -- because 
facing these impediments shouldn't prevent you from reaching your 
potential.

All right, so that's a big chunk of this first part of this initiative.  
The second part:  We're going to back $10 billion in loans to renovate and 
rebuild college classrooms and buildings all across the country. All too 
often, community colleges are treated like the stepchild of the higher 
education system; they're an afterthought, if they're thought of at all.  
And that means schools are often years behind in the facilities they 
provide, which means, in a 21st century economy, they're years behind in 
the education they can offer.  That's a mistake and it's one that we'll 
help to correct.  Through this fund, schools will have the chance to borrow 
at a more affordable rate to modernize facilities, and they'll be building 
on the funds in the recovery plan that are already helping to renovate 
schools, including community colleges all across the country.  And by the 
way, not only does this improve the schools and the training that they're 
providing, guess what?  You also have to hire some workers and some 
tradesmen and women to do the work on those schools.  So it means it's 
putting people to work in Michigan right here right now.

Number three:  Even as we repair bricks and mortar, we have an opportunity 
to build a new virtual infrastructure to complement the education and 
training community colleges can offer.  So we're going to support the 
creation of a new online, open-source clearinghouse of courses so that 
community colleges across the country can offer more classes without 
building more classrooms.  And this will make a big difference especially 
for rural campuses that a lot of times have struggled -- attract -- have to 
struggle to attract students and faculty.  And this will make it possible 
for a professor to complement his lecture with an online exercise, or for a 
student who can't be away from her family to still keep up with her 
coursework.  We don't know where this kind of experiment will lead, but 
that's exactly why we ought to try it because I think there's a possibility 
that online education can provide especially for people who are already in 
the workforce and want to retrain the chance to upgrade their skills 
without having to quit their job.

So let me say this more:  The road to recovery, the road to prosperity, is 
going to be hard.  It was never going to be easy.  When I was sworn in, we 
were seeing 700 [thousand] jobs lost that month.  Then we had the same 
amount lost for two more consecutive months.  Now we've got an average of 
about 400,000 jobs lost -- but we're still losing too many jobs.  We will 
get to the point where we're not losing jobs, but then we've got to start 
getting to the point where we're actually creating jobs.

And it's going to take time.  There are going to be false starts and there 
are going to be setbacks.  But I am confident that we can meet the 
challenges we face, because that's what we've always done.  That's what 
America does.  We hit some challenges, we fuss and argue about it, and then 
we go ahead and go about the business of solving our problems.  That's what 
we see on display right here at Macomb Community College.  That's what I've 
seen at colleges and universities all across this country.  At every 
juncture in our history when we've been challenged, we have summoned the 
resilience and the industriousness -- that can-do American spirit -- that 
has allowed us to succeed in the face of even the toughest odds.

That's what we can and must do now, not just to overcome this crisis, but 
to leave something better behind, to lay a foundation on which our children 
and our grandchildren can prosper and take responsibility for their future 
-- just as the students at this school, at this difficult moment, are 
taking responsibility for theirs.

I am absolutely confident that if I've got your help, that we can make it 
happen, and we are going to see a stronger, more prosperous Michigan in the 
years to come.

Thank you very much, Warren.  God bless you.  God bless the United States 
of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.