 

 

Barack Obama

Commencement Address at the University of Notre Dame

delivered 18 May 2009

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

President Obama: Thank you very much. Thank you, Notre Dame. Thank you. 
Thank you. Please, have a seat. Thank you...

Well first of all, congratulations, Class of 2009. Congratulations to all 
the parents, the cousins, the aunts, the uncles -- the -- all the people 
who helped to bring you to the point that you are here today. Thank you so 
much to Father Jenkins for that extraordinary introduction, even though you 
said what I want to say much more elegantly. You are doing an extraordinary 
job as president of this extraordinary institution, and your continued and 
courageous and contagious commitment to honest, thoughtful dialogue is an 
inspiration to us all.

So, good afternoon, to Father Hesburgh
 , to Notre Dame 
trustees, to faculty, to family. I am honored to be here today. And...I am 
grateful to all of you for allowing me to be a part of your graduation. And 
I also want to thank you for the honorary degree that I received. I know it 
has not been without controversy. I don't know if you're aware of this, but 
these honorary degrees are apparently pretty hard to come by. So far I'm 
only 1 for 2 as President. Father...Hesburgh is 150 for 150. I guess that's 
better. So, Father Ted after the ceremony maybe you can give me some 
pointers to boost my average. 

I also want to congratulate the Class of 2009 for all your accomplishments. 
And since --

[Audience member interrupts with pro-life slogans]

President Obama: And since -- this is Notre Dame, I mean -- That's...all 
right. And since -- 

[Audience chants "We are ND! We are ND!"]

President Obama: We're fine, everybody. We're -- We're following Brennan's 
adage that we don't do things easily. We want to -- We're -- We're not 
going to shy away from things that are uncomfortable sometimes.

Now, since -- since this is Notre Dame I think we should talk not only 
about your accomplishments in the classroom, but also in the competitive 
arena. No, don't worry, I'm not going to talk about that. We all know about 
this university's proud and storied football team, but I also hear that 
Notre Dame holds the largest outdoor 5-on-5 basketball tournament in the 
world -- "Bookstore Basketball  ."

Now this excites me. I want to congratulate the winners of this year's 
tournament, a team by the name of "Hallelujah Holla Back." Congratulations. 
Well done. Though I have to say, I'm personally disappointed that the 
"Barack O'Ballers" did not pull it out this year. So next year, if you need 
a 6'2" forward with a decent jumper, you know where I live.

Now, every one of you should be proud of what you've achieved at this 
institution. One hundred and sixty-three classes of Notre Dame graduates 
have sat where you sit today. Some were here during years that simply 
rolled into the next without much notice or fanfare -- periods of relative 
peace and prosperity that required little by way of sacrifice or struggle. 

You, however, are not getting off that easy. You have a different deal. 
Your class has come of age at a moment of great consequence for our nation 
and for the world -- a rare inflection point in history where the size and 
scope of the challenges before us require that we remake our world to renew 
its promise, that we align our deepest values and commitments to the 
demands of a new age. It's a privilege and a responsibility afforded to few 
generations -- and a task that you're now called to fulfill. 

This generation, your generation is the one that must find a path back to 
prosperity and decide how we respond to a global economy that left millions 
behind even before the most recent crisis hit -- an economy where greed and 
short-term thinking were too often rewarded at the expense of fairness, and 
diligence, and an honest day's work.

Your generation -- Your generation must decide how to save God's creation 
from a changing climate that threatens to destroy it. Your generation must 
seek peace at a time when there are those who will stop at nothing to do us 
harm, and when weapons in the hands of a few can destroy the many. And we 
must find a way to reconcile our ever-shrinking world with its ever-growing 
diversity -- diversity of thought, diversity of culture, and diversity of 
belief.

In short, we must find a way to live together as one human family. And -- 
And it's this last challenge that I'd like to talk about today, despite the 
fact that Father John stole all my best lines. For the major threats we 
face in the 21st century -- whether it's global recession or violent 
extremism, the spread of nuclear weapons or pandemic disease -- these 
things do not discriminate. They do not recognize borders. They do not see 
color. They do not target specific ethnic groups. Moreover, no one person, 
or religion, or nation can meet these challenges alone. Our very survival 
has never required greater cooperation and greater understanding among all 
people from all places than at this moment in history.

Unfortunately, finding that common ground -- recognizing that our fates are 
tied up, as Dr. King said, in a "single garment of destiny" -- is not easy. 
And part of the problem, of course, lies in the imperfections of man -- our 
selfishness, our pride, our stubbornness, our acquisitiveness, our 
insecurities, our egos -- all the cruelties large and small that those of 
us in the Christian tradition understand to be rooted in original sin. We 
too often seek advantage over others. We cling to outworn prejudice and 
fear those who are unfamiliar. Too many of us view life only through the 
lens of immediate self-interest and crass materialism -- in which the world 
is necessarily a zero-sum game  
. The strong too often dominate the weak, and too many of those with wealth 
and with power find all manner of justification for their own privilege in 
the face of poverty and injustice.

And so for all our technology and scientific advances, we see here in this 
country and around the globe violence and want and strife that would seem 
sadly familiar to those in ancient times. We know these things. And 
hopefully one of the benefits of the wonderful education that you have 
received here at Notre Dame is that you've had time to consider these 
wrongs in the world, perhaps recognized impulses in yourself that you want 
to leave behind. You've grown determined -- each in your own way -- to 
right them. And yet one of the vexing things for those of us interested in 
promoting greater understanding and cooperation among people is the 
discovery that even bringing together persons of good will, bringing 
together men and women of principle and purpose -- even accomplishing that 
can be difficult.

The soldier and the lawyer may both love this country with equal passion, 
and yet reach very different conclusions on the specific steps needed to 
protect us from harm. The gay activist and the evangelical pastor may both 
deplore the ravages of HIV/AIDS, but find themselves unable to bridge the 
cultural divide that might unite their efforts. Those who speak out against 
stem cell research may be rooted in an admirable conviction about the 
sacredness of life, but so are the parents of a child with juvenile 
diabetes who are convinced that their son's or daughter's hardships might 
be relieved.

The -- The question, then -- The question, then, is how do we work through 
these conflicts? Is it possible for us to join hands in common effort? As 
citizens of a vibrant and varied democracy, how do we engage in vigorous 
debate? How does each of us remain firm in our principles, and fight for 
what we consider right, without, as Father John said, demonizing those with 
just as strongly held convictions on the other side? And of course, nowhere 
do these questions come up more powerfully than on the issue of abortion.

As I considered the controversy surrounding my visit here, I was reminded 
of an encounter I had during my Senate campaign, one that I describe in a 
book I wrote called The Audacity of Hope. In a few days after I won the 
Democratic nomination  , I 
received an e-mail from a doctor who told me that while he voted for me in 
the Illinois primary, he had a serious concern that might prevent him from 
voting for me in the general election. He described himself as a Christian 
who was strongly pro-life -- but that was not what was preventing him 
potentially from voting for me. 

What bothered the doctor was an entry that my campaign staff had posted on 
my website -- an entry that said I would fight, quote, "right-wing 
ideologues who want to take away a woman's right to choose," unquote. The 
doctor said he had assumed I was a reasonable person. He supported my 
policy initiatives to help the poor and to lift up our educational system, 
but that if I truly believed that every pro-life individual was simply an 
ideologue who wanted to inflict suffering on women, then I was not very 
reasonable. He wrote, "I do not ask at this point that you oppose abortion, 
only that you speak about this issue in fair-minded words."

Fair-minded words.

After I read the doctor's letter, I wrote back to him and I thanked him. 
And I didn't change my underlying position, but I did tell my staff to 
change the words on my website. And I said a prayer that night that I might 
extend the same presumption of good faith to others that the doctor had 
extended to me; because when we do that -- when we open up our hearts and 
our minds to those who may not think precisely like we do or believe 
precisely what we believe -- that's when we discover at least the 
possibility of common ground. That's when we begin to say, "Maybe we won't 
agree on abortion, but we can still agree that this heart-wrenching 
decision for any woman is not made casually, and it has both moral and 
spiritual dimensions. 

So let us work together to reduce the number of women seeking abortions. 
Let's reduce unintended pregnancies. Let's make adoption more available. 
Let's -- Let's provide care and support for women who do carry their 
children to term. Let's honor the conscience of those who disagree with 
abortion, and draft a sensible conscience clause, and make sure that all of 
our health care policies are grounded not only in sound science, but also 
in clear ethics, as well as respect for the equality of women. Those are 
things we can do.

Now, understand -- understand, Class of 2009, I do not suggest that the 
debate surrounding abortion can or should go away, because no matter how 
much we may want to fudge it -- indeed, while we know that the views of 
most Americans on the subject are complex and even contradictory -- the 
fact is that at some level, the views of the two camps are irreconcilable. 
Each side will continue to make its case to the public with passion and 
conviction. But surely we can do so without reducing those with differing 
views to caricature.

Open hearts. Open minds. Fair-minded words. It's a way of life that has 
always been the Notre Dame tradition. You know, Father -- Father Hesburgh 
has long spoken of this institution as both a -- a lighthouse and a 
crossroads, a lighthouse that stands apart, shining with the wisdom of the 
Catholic tradition, while the crossroads is where "differences of culture 
and religion and conviction can co-exist with friendship, civility, 
hospitality, and especially love." And I want to join him and Father John 
in saying how inspired I am by the maturity and responsibility with which 
this class has approached the debate surrounding today's ceremony. You are 
an example of what Notre Dame is about.

Now, this tradition of cooperation and understanding is one that I learned 
in my own life many years ago -- also with the help of the Catholic Church. 
You see, I was not raised in a particularly religious household, but my 
mother instilled in me a sense of service and empathy that eventually led 
me to become a community organizer after I graduated college. And a group 
of Catholic churches in Chicago helped fund an organization known as the 
"Developing Communities Project," and we worked to lift up South Side 
neighborhoods that had been devastated when the local steel plant closed. 

And it was quite an eclectic crew -- Catholic and Protestant churches, 
Jewish and African American organizers, working-class black, white, and 
Hispanic residents -- all of us with different experiences, all of us with 
different beliefs; but all of us learned to work side by side because all 
of us saw in these neighborhoods other human beings who needed our help to 
find jobs and improve schools. We were bound together in the service of 
others.

And something else happened during the time I spent in these neighborhoods, 
perhaps because the church folks I worked with were so welcoming and 
understanding; perhaps because they invited me to their services and sang 
with me from their hymnals; perhaps because I was really broke and they fed 
me; perhaps because I witnessed all of the good works their faith inspired 
them to perform, I found myself drawn not just to the work with the church; 
I was drawn to be in the church. It was through this service that I was 
brought to Christ. 

And at the time, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin
 was the Archbishop of 
Chicago. And for those of you -- for those of you too young to have known 
him or known of him, he was a kind and good and wise man; a saintly man. I 
can still remember him speaking at one of the first organizing meetings I 
attended on the South Side. He stood as both a lighthouse and a crossroads 
-- unafraid to speak his mind on moral issues ranging from poverty and AIDS 
and abortion to the death penalty and nuclear war. And yet, he was 
congenial and gentle in his persuasion, always trying to bring people 
together, always trying to find common ground. And just before he died, a 
reporter asked Cardinal Bernardin about this approach to his ministry. And 
he said, "You can't really get on with preaching the Gospel until you've 
touched hearts and minds." 

My heart and mind were touched by him. They were touched by the words and 
deeds of the men and women I worked alongside in parishes across Chicago. 
And I'd like to think that we touched the hearts and minds of the 
neighborhood families whose lives we helped change. For this, I believe, is 
our highest calling. 

Now, you, Class of 2009, are about to enter the next phase of your life at 
a time of great uncertainty. You'll be called to help restore a free market 
that's also fair to all who are willing to work. You'll be called to seek 
new sources of energy that can save our planet; to give future generations 
the same chance that you had to receive an extraordinary education. And 
whether as a person drawn to public service, or simply someone who insists 
on being an active citizen, you will be exposed to more opinions and ideas 
broadcast through more means of communication than ever existed before. 
You'll hear talking heads scream on cable; and you'll read blogs that claim 
definitive knowledge; and you will watch politicians pretend they know what 
they're talking about. Occasionally, you may have the great fortune of 
actually seeing important issues debated by people who do know what they're 
talking about -- by well-intentioned people with brilliant minds and 
mastery of the facts. In fact, I suspect that some of you will be among 
those brightest stars. 

And in this world of competing claims about what is right and what is true, 
have confidence in the values with which you've been raised and educated. 
Be unafraid to speak your mind when those values are at stake. Hold firm to 
your faith and allow it to guide you on your journey. In other words, stand 
as a lighthouse. But remember, too, that you can be a crossroads. Remember, 
too, that the ultimate irony of faith is that it necessarily admits doubt. 
It's the belief in things not seen. It's beyond our capacity as human 
beings to know with certainty what God has planned for us or what He asks 
of us. And those of us who believe must trust that His wisdom is greater 
than our own. 

And this doubt should not push us away our faith. But it should humble us. 
It should temper our passions, cause us to be wary of too much 
self-righteousness. It should compel us to remain open and curious and 
eager to continue the spiritual and moral debate that began for so many of 
you within the walls of Notre Dame. And within our vast democracy, this 
doubt should remind us even as we cling to our faith to persuade through 
reason, through an appeal, whenever we can, to universal rather than 
parochial principles, and most of all through an abiding example of good 
works and charity and kindness and service that moves hearts and minds.

For if there is one law that we can be most certain of, it is the law that 
binds people of all faiths and no faith together. It's no coincidence that 
it exists in Christianity and Judaism, in Islam and Hinduism, in Buddhism 
and humanism. It is, of course, the Golden Rule -- the call to treat one 
another as we wish to be treated. The call to love. The call to serve. To 
do what we can to make a difference in the lives of those with whom we 
share the same brief moment on this Earth. So many of you at Notre Dame -- 
by the last count, upwards of 80 percent -- have lived this law of love 
through the service you've performed at schools and hospitals, 
international relief agencies and local charities. Brennan is just one 
example of what your class has accomplished. That's incredibly impressive, 
a powerful testament to this institution.

And now -- now you must carry the tradition forward. Make it a way of life. 
Because when you serve, it doesn't just improve your community, it makes 
you a part of your community. It breaks down walls. It fosters cooperation. 
And when that happens -- when -- when people set aside their differences, 
even for a moment, to work in common effort toward a common goal; when they 
struggle together, and sacrifice together, and learn from one another -- 
then all things are possible. 

After all, I stand here today, as President and as an African American, on 
the 55th anniversary of the day that the Supreme Court handed down the 
decision in Brown versus Board of Education
 . Now, Brown 
was of course the first major step in dismantling the "separate but equal" 
doctrine  . But 
it would take a number of years and a nationwide movement to fully realize 
the dream of civil rights for all of God's children. There were freedom 
rides and lunch counters and Billy clubs, and there was also a Civil Rights 
Commission  
appointed by President Eisenhower. It was the 12 resolutions recommended by 
this commission that would ultimately become law in the Civil Rights Act of 
1964  . 

There were six members of this commission. It included five whites and one 
African American, Democrats and Republicans, two Southern governors, the 
dean of a Southern law school, a Midwestern university president, and your 
own Father Ted Hesburgh, President of Notre Dame. So they worked for two 
years, and at times President Eisenhower had to intervene personally since 
no hotel or restaurant in the South would serve the black and white members 
of the commission together. And finally when they reached an impasse in 
Louisiana, Father Ted flew them all to Notre Dame's retreat in Land 
O'Lakes, Wisconsin -- where they eventually -- where they eventually 
overcame their differences and hammered out a final deal.

And years later, President Eisenhower asked Father Ted how on earth he was 
able to broker an agreement between men of such different backgrounds and 
beliefs. And Father Ted simply said that during their first dinner in 
Wisconsin they discovered they were all fishermen. And so he quickly 
readied a boat for a twilight trip out on the lake. They fished, and they 
talked, and they changed the course of history. 

I will not pretend that the challenges we face will be easy, or that the 
answers will come quickly, or that all our differences and divisions will 
fade happily away -- because life is not that simple. It never has been. 
But as you leave here today, remember the lessons of Cardinal Bernardin, of 
Father Hesburgh, of movements for change both large and small. Remember 
that each of us, endowed with the dignity possessed by all children of God, 
has the grace to recognize ourselves in one another; to understand that we 
all seek the same love of family, the same fulfillment of a life well 
lived. Remember that in the end, in some way we are all fishermen. 

If nothing else, that knowledge should give us faith that through our 
collective labor, and God's providence, and our willingness to shoulder 
each other's burdens, America will continue on its precious journey towards 
that more perfect union  . Congratulations, 
Class of 2009.

May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Audio and Image (Video Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain. Video = 
http://www.vimeo.com/terms 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.