 

 

Barack Obama

Securing U.S. Cyber Infrastructure

delivered 29 May 2009, East Room, White House, Washington, D.C.

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

We meet today at a transformational moment -- a moment in history when our 
interconnected world presents us, at once, with great promise but also 
great peril.

Now, over the past four months my Administration has taken decisive steps 
to seize the promise and confront these perils. We're working to recover 
from a global recession while laying a new foundation for lasting 
prosperity. We're strengthening our armed forces as they fight two wars, at 
the same time we're renewing American leadership to confront unconventional 
challenges, from nuclear proliferation to terrorism, from climate change to 
pandemic disease. And we're bringing to government -- and to this White 
House -- unprecedented transparency and accountability and new ways for 
Americans to participate in their democracy.

But none of this progress would be possible, and none of these 21st century 
challenges can be fully met, without America's digital infrastructure -- 
the backbone that underpins a prosperous economy and a strong military and 
an open and efficient government. Without that foundation we can't get the 
job done.

It's long been said that the revolutions in communications and information 
technology have given birth to a virtual world. But make no mistake: This 
world -- cyberspace -- is a world that we depend on every single day. It's 
our hardware and our software, our desktops and laptops and cell phones and 
Blackberries that have become woven into every aspect of our lives.

It's the broadband networks beneath us and the wireless signals around us, 
the local networks in our schools and hospitals and businesses, and the 
massive grids that power our nation. It's the classified military and 
intelligence networks that keep us safe, and the World Wide Web that has 
made us more interconnected than at any time in human history.

So cyberspace is real. And so are the risks that come with it.

It's the great irony of our Information Age -- the very technologies that 
empower us to create and to build also empower those who would disrupt and 
destroy. And this paradox -- seen and unseen -- is something that we 
experience every day.

It's about the privacy and the economic security of American families. We 
rely on the Internet to pay our bills, to bank, to shop, to file our taxes. 
But we've had to learn a whole new vocabulary just to stay ahead of the 
cyber criminals who would do us harm: spyware
 and malware
 and spoofing
 and phishing
 and botnets
 . Millions of Americans have been 
victimized, their privacy violated, their identities stolen
 , their lives upended, and 
their wallets emptied. According to one survey, in the past two years alone 
cyber crime has cost Americans more than 8 billion dollars.

I know how it feels to have privacy violated because it has happened to me 
and the people around me. It's no secret that my presidential campaign 
harnessed the Internet and technology to transform our politics. What isn't 
widely known is that during the general election hackers managed to 
penetrate our computer systems. To all of you who donated to our campaign, 
I want you to all rest assured, our fundraising website was untouched. So 
your confidential personal and financial information was protected.

But between August and October, hackers gained access to emails and a range 
of campaign files, from policy position papers to travel plans. And we 
worked closely with the CIA, with the FBI and the Secret Service, and hired 
security consultants to restore the security of our systems. It was a 
powerful reminder: In this Information Age, one of your greatest strengths 
-- in our case, our ability to communicate to a wide range of supporters 
through the Internet -- could also be one of your greatest vulnerabilities.

This is a matter, as well, of America's economic competitiveness. The small 
businesswoman in St. Louis, the bond trader in the New York Stock Exchange, 
the workers at a global shipping company in Memphis, the young entrepreneur 
in Silicon Valley -- they all need the networks to make the next payroll, 
the next trade, the next delivery, the next great breakthrough. E-commerce 
alone last year accounted for some 132 billion dollars in retail sales.

But every day we see waves of cyber thieves trolling for sensitive 
information -- the disgruntled employee on the inside, the lone hacker a 
thousand miles away, organized crime, the industrial spy and, increasingly, 
foreign intelligence services. In one brazen act last year
 
, thieves used stolen credit card information to steal millions of dollars 
from 130 ATM machines in 49 cities around the world -- and they did it in 
just 30 minutes.

A single employee of an American company was convicted of stealing 
intellectual property reportedly worth 400 million dollars
 
. It's been estimated that last year alone cyber criminals stole 
intellectual property from businesses worldwide worth up to 1 trillion 
dollars.

In short, America's economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on 
cybersecurity.

And this is also a matter of public safety and national security. We count 
on computer networks to deliver our oil and gas, our power and our water. 
We rely on them for public transportation and air traffic control. Yet we 
know that cyber intruders have probed our electrical grid and that in other 
countries cyber attacks have plunged entire cities into darkness.

Our technological advantage is a key to America's military dominance. But 
our defense and military networks are under constant attack. Al Qaeda and 
other terrorist groups have spoken of their desire to unleash a cyber 
attack on our country -- attacks that are harder to detect and harder to 
defend against. Indeed, in today's world, acts of terror could come not 
only from a few extremists in suicide vests but from a few key strokes on 
the computer -- a weapon of mass disruption.

In one of the most serious cyber incidents to date against our military 
networks, several thousand computers were infected last year
 
by malicious software -- malware
 . And while no 
sensitive information was compromised, our troops and defense personnel had 
to give up those external memory devices -- thumb drives -- changing the 
way they used their computers every day.

And last year we had a glimpse of the future face of war. As Russian tanks 
rolled into Georgia, cyber attacks crippled Georgian government websites. 
The terrorists that sowed so much death and destruction in Mumbai relied 
not only on guns and grenades but also on GPS and phones using 
voice-over-the-Internet.

For all these reasons, it's now clear this cyber threat is one of the most 
serious economic and national security challenges we face as a nation.

It's also clear that we're not as prepared as we should be, as a government 
or as a country.  In recent years, some progress has been made at the 
federal level. But just as we failed in the past to invest in our physical 
infrastructure -- our roads, our bridges and rails -- we've failed to 
invest in the security of our digital infrastructure.

No single official oversees cybersecurity policy across the federal 
government, and no single agency has the responsibility or authority to 
match the scope and scale of the challenge. Indeed, when it comes to 
cybersecurity, federal agencies have overlapping missions and don't 
coordinate and communicate nearly as well as they should -- with each other 
or with the private sector. We saw this in the disorganized response to 
Conficker  , the Internet worm
 that in recent months has 
infected millions of computers around the world.

This status quo is no longer acceptable -- not when there's so much at 
stake. We can and we must do better.

And that's why shortly after taking office I directed my National Security 
Council and Homeland Security Council to conduct a top-to-bottom review of 
the federal government's efforts to defend our information and 
communications infrastructure and to recommend the best way to ensure that 
these networks are able to secure our networks as well as our prosperity.

Our review was open and transparent. I want to acknowledge, Melissa 
Hathaway  -- who is here -- 
who is the Acting Senior Director for Cyberspace on our National Security 
Council, who led the review team, as well as the Center for Strategic and 
International Studies  bipartisan Commission on 
Cybersecurity
 , and 
all who were part of our 60-day review team. They listened to a wide 
variety of groups, many of which are represented here today and I want to 
thank for their input: industry and academia, civil liberties and private 
-- privacy advocates. We listened to every level and branch of government 
-- from local to state to federal, civilian, military, homeland as well as 
intelligence, Congress and international partners, as well. I consulted 
with my national security teams, my homeland security teams, and my 
economic advisors.

Today I'm releasing a report on our review
 , and can announce that 
my Administration will pursue a new comprehensive approach to securing 
America's digital infrastructure.

This new approach starts at the top, with this commitment from me: From now 
on, our digital infrastructure -- the networks and computers we depend on 
every day -- will be treated as they should be: as a strategic national 
asset. Protecting this infrastructure will be a national security priority. 
We will ensure that these networks are secure, trustworthy and resilient. 
We will deter, prevent, detect, and defend against attacks and recover 
quickly from any disruptions or damage.

To give these efforts the high-level focus and attention they deserve -- 
and as part of the new, single National Security Staff announced this week 
-- I'm creating a new office here at the White House that will be led by 
the Cybersecurity Coordinator.  Because of the critical importance of this 
work, I will personally select this official
 
. I'll depend on this official in all matters relating to cybersecurity, 
and this official will have my full support and regular access to me as we 
confront these challenges.

Today, I want to focus on the important responsibilities this office will 
fulfill: orchestrating and integrating all cybersecurity policies for the 
government; working closely with the Office of Management and Budget to 
ensure agency budgets reflect those priorities; and, in the event of major 
cyber incident or attack, coordinating our response.

To ensure that federal cyber policies enhance our security and our 
prosperity, my Cybersecurity Coordinator will be a member of the National 
Security Staff as well as the staff of my National Economic Council. To 
ensure that policies keep faith with our fundamental values, this office 
will also include an official with a portfolio specifically dedicated to 
safeguarding the privacy and civil liberties of the American people.

There's much work to be done, and the report we're releasing today outlines 
a range of actions that we will pursue in five key areas.

First, working in partnership with the communities represented here today, 
we will develop a new comprehensive strategy to secure America's 
information and communications networks. To ensure a coordinated approach 
across government, my Cybersecurity Coordinator will work closely with my 
Chief Technology Officer, Aneesh Chopra
 , and my Chief Information 
Officer, Vivek Kundra  . To 
ensure accountability in federal agencies, cybersecurity will be designated 
as one of my key management priorities. Clear milestones and performances 
metrics will measure progress. And as we develop our strategy, we will be 
open and transparent, which is why you'll find today's report and a wealth 
of related information on our Web site, www.whitehouse.gov
 .

Second, we will work with all the key players -- including state and local 
governments and the private sector -- to ensure an organized and unified 
response to future cyber incidents. Given the enormous damage that can be 
caused by even a single cyber attack, ad hoc responses will not do. Nor is 
it sufficient to simply strengthen our defenses after incidents or attacks 
occur. Just as we do for natural disasters, we have to have plans and 
resources in place beforehand -- sharing information, issuing warnings and 
ensuring a coordinated response.

Third, we will strengthen the public/private partnerships that are critical 
to this endeavor. The vast majority of our critical information 
infrastructure in the United States is owned and operated by the private 
sector. So let me be very clear: My Administration will not dictate 
security standards for private companies. On the contrary, we will 
collaborate with industry to find technology solutions that ensure our 
security and promote prosperity.

Fourth, we will continue to invest in the cutting-edge research and 
development necessary for the innovation and discovery we need to meet the 
digital challenges of our time. And that's why my Administration is making 
major investments in our information infrastructure: laying broadband lines 
to every corner of America; building a smart electric grid to deliver 
energy more efficiently; pursuing a next generation of air traffic control 
systems; and moving to electronic health records, with privacy protections, 
to reduce costs and save lives.

And finally, we will begin a national campaign to promote cybersecurity 
awareness and digital literacy from our boardrooms to our classrooms, and 
to build a digital workforce for the 21st century. And that's why we're 
making a new commitment to education in math and science, and historic 
investments in science and research and development. Because it's not 
enough for our children and students to master today's technologies -- 
social networking and e-mailing and texting and blogging -- we need them to 
pioneer the technologies that will allow us to work effectively through 
these new media and allow us to prosper in the future. So these are the 
things we will do.

Let me also be clear about what we will not do. Our pursuit of 
cybersecurity will not -- I repeat, will not include -- monitoring private 
sector networks or Internet traffic.

We will preserve and protect the personal privacy and civil liberties that 
we cherish as Americans. Indeed, I remain firmly committed to net 
neutrality so we can keep the Internet as it should be -- open and free.

The task I have described will not be easy. Some 1.5 billion people around 
the world are already online, and more are logging on every day. Groups and 
governments are sharpening their cyber capabilities. Protecting our 
prosperity and security in this globalized world is going to be a long, 
difficult struggle demanding patience and persistence over many years.

But we need to remember: We're only at the beginning. The epochs of history 
are long -- the Agricultural Revolution; the Industrial Revolution. By 
comparison, our Information Age is still in its infancy. We're only at Web 
2.0.   Now our virtual world is going 
viral. And we've only just begun to explore the next generation of 
technologies that will transform our lives in ways we can't even begin to 
imagine.

So a new world awaits -- a world of greater security and greater potential 
prosperity -- if we reach for it, if we lead. So long as I'm President of 
the United States, we will do just that. And the United States -- the 
nation that invented the Internet, that launched an information revolution, 
that transformed the world -- will do what we did in the 20th century and 
lead once more in the 21st.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.