 

 

Barack Obama

Remarks on the Economic Crisis & Executive Compensation

delivered 4 February 2009, Grand Foyer, The White House

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[as prepared for delivery]

The economic crisis we face is unlike any we've seen in our lifetime. It's 
a crisis of falling confidence and rising debt, of widely distributed risk 
and narrowly concentrated reward; a crisis written in the fine print of 
sub-prime mortgages, on the ledger lines of once mighty financial 
institutions, and on the pink slips that have upended the lives of so many 
people across this country and cost the economy 2.6 million jobs last year 
alone.

We know that even if we do everything that we should, this crisis was years 
in the making, and it will take more than weeks or months to turn things 
around.

But make no mistake: A failure to act, and act now, will turn crisis into a 
catastrophe and guarantee a longer recession, a less robust recovery, and a 
more uncertain future. Millions more jobs will be lost. More businesses 
will be shuttered. More dreams will be deferred.

And that's why I feel such a sense of urgency about the economic recovery 
and reinvestment plan that is before Congress today. With it, we can save 
or create more than three million jobs, doing things that will strengthen 
our country for years to come. It's not merely a prescription for 
short-term spending -- it's a strategy for long-term economic growth in 
areas like renewable energy and health care and education.

Now, in the past few days I've heard criticisms that this plan is somehow 
wanting, and these criticisms echo the very same failed economic theories 
that led us into this crisis in the first place -- the notion that tax cuts 
alone will solve all our problems; that we can ignore fundamental 
challenges like energy independence and the high cost of health care; that 
we can somehow deal with this in a piecemeal fashion and still expect our 
economy and our country to thrive.

I reject those theories. And so did the American people when they went to 
the polls in November and voted resoundingly for change. So I urge members 
of Congress to act without delay. No plan is perfect, and we should work to 
make it stronger. No one is more committed to making it stronger than me. 
But let's not make the perfect the enemy of the essential. Let's show 
people all over the country who are looking for leadership in this 
difficult time that we are equal to the task.

At the same time, we know that this recovery and reinvestment plan is only 
the first part of what we need to do to restore prosperity and secure our 
future. We also need a strong and viable financial system to keep credit 
flowing to businesses and families alike. And my administration will do 
whatever it takes to restore our financial system. Our recovery depends on 
it. And so in the next week, Secretary Geithner will release a new strategy 
to get credit moving again -- a strategy that will reflect some of the 
lessons of past mistakes while laying the foundation of the future.

But in order to restore trust in our financial system, we're going to have 
to do more than just put forward our plans. In order to restore trust, 
we've got to make certain that taxpayer funds are not subsidizing excessive 
compensation packages on Wall Street.

We all need to take responsibility. And this includes executives at major 
financial firms who turned to the American people, hat in hand, when they 
were in trouble, even as they paid themselves customary lavish bonuses. As 
I said last week, this is the height of irresponsibility. It's shameful. 
And that's exactly the kind of disregard of the costs and consequences of 
their actions that brought about this crisis: a culture of narrow 
self-interest and short-term gain at the expense of everything else.

This is America. We don't disparage wealth. We don't begrudge anybody for 
achieving success. And we certainly believe that success should be 
rewarded. But what gets people upset -- and rightfully so -- are executives 
being rewarded for failure, especially when those rewards are subsidized by 
U.S. taxpayers, many of whom are having a tough time themselves.

For top executives to award themselves these kinds of compensation packages 
in the midst of this economic crisis isn't just bad taste -- it's bad 
strategy -- and I will not tolerate it as President. We're going to be 
demanding some restraint in exchange for federal aid -- so that when firms 
seek new federal dollars, we won't find them up to the same old tricks.

As part of the reforms we're announcing today, top executives at firms 
receiving extraordinary help from U.S. taxpayers will have their 
compensation capped at 500,000 dollars -- a fraction of the salaries that 
have been reported recently. And if these executives receive any additional 
compensation, it will come in the form of stock that can't be paid up until 
taxpayers are paid back for their assistance.

Companies receiving federal aid are going to have to disclose publicly all 
the perks and luxuries bestowed upon senior executives, and provide an 
explanation to the taxpayers and to shareholders as to why these expenses 
are justified. And we're putting a stop to these kinds of massive severance 
packages we've all read about with disgust; we're taking the air out of 
golden parachutes.

We're asking these firms to take responsibility, to recognize the nature of 
this crisis and their role in it. We believe that what we've laid out 
should be viewed as fair and embraced as basic common sense.

And finally, these guidelines we're putting in place are only the beginning 
of a long-term effort. We're going to examine the ways in which the means 
and manner of executive compensation have contributed to a reckless culture 
and a quarter-by-quarter mentality that in turn helped to wrought havoc in 
our financial system. We're going to be taking a look at broader reforms so 
that executives are compensated for sound risk management, and rewarded for 
growth measured over years, not just days or weeks.

We all have to pull together and take our share of responsibility. That's 
true here in Washington. That's true on Wall Street. The American people 
are carrying a huge burden as a result of this economic crisis: bearing the 
brunt of its effects as well as the cost of extraordinary measures we're 
taking to address them. The American people expect and demand that we 
pursue policies that reflect the reality of this crisis -- and that will 
prevent these kinds of crises from occurring again in the future.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present.
American Rhetoric.