 

 

Barack Obama

Pre-Inauguration Address at the Lincoln Memorial

delivered 18 January 2009, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 of Address



Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf   
 click for 
flash 

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Hello America!

I want to thank all the speakers and performers today for reminding us, 
through song and through words, just what it is that we love about America. 
I want to thank all of you for braving the cold and the crowds and 
traveling in some cases thousands of miles to join us here today. Welcome 
to Washington, and welcome to this celebration of American renewal.

In the course of our history, only a handful of generations have been asked 
to confront challenges as serious as the ones we face right now. Our nation 
is at war. Our economy is in crisis. Millions of Americans are losing their 
jobs and their homes. They're worried about how they'll afford college for 
their kids or pay the stack of bills on their kitchen table. And most of 
all, they're anxious and uncertain about the future -- about whether this 
generation of Americans will be able to pass on what's best about this 
country to our children and their children.

I won't pretend that meeting any one of these challenges will be easy. It 
will take more than a month or a year, and it will likely take many. Along 
the way there will be setbacks and false starts and days that test our 
resolve as a nation.

But despite all this -- despite the enormity of the task that lies ahead -- 
I stand here today as hopeful as ever that the United States of America 
will endure, that it will prevail, that the dream of our Founders will live 
on in our time.

What gives me hope is what I see when I look out across this mall. For in 
these monuments are chiseled those unlikely stories that affirm our 
unyielding faith -- a faith that anything is possible in America. Rising 
before us stands a memorial to a man who led a small band of farmers and 
shopkeepers in revolution against the army of an empire, all for the sake 
of an idea. 

On the ground below is a tribute to a generation that withstood war and 
depression -- men and women like my grandparents who toiled on bomber 
assembly lines and marched across Europe to free the world from tyranny's 
grasp. Directly in front of us is a pool that still reflects the dream of a 
King  , and the glory of a people who marched and 
bled so that their children might be judged by their character's content. 
And behind me, watching over the union he saved, sits the man who in so 
many ways made this day possible.

And yet, as I stand here today, what gives me the greatest hope of all is 
not the stone and marble that surrounds us, but what -- what fills the 
spaces in between. It is you -- Americans of every race and region and 
station who came here because you believe in what this country can be and 
because you want to help us get there.

It's the same thing that gave me hope from the day we began this campaign 
for the presidency  nearly two 
years ago: a belief that if we could just recognize ourselves in one 
another and bring everyone together -- Democrats, Republicans, 
Independents; Latino, Asian and Native American; black and white, gay and 
straight, disabled and not -- then not only would we restore hope and 
opportunity in places that yearned for both, but maybe, just maybe, we 
might perfect our union  in the process.

This is what I believed, but you made this belief real. You proved once 
more that people who love this country can change it. And as I prepare to 
assume the presidency, yours are the voices I will take with me every day 
when I walk into that Oval Office -- the voices of men and women who have 
different stories but hold common hopes; who ask only for what was promised 
us as Americans -- that we might make of our lives what we will and see our 
children climb higher than we did.

It is this thread that binds us together in common effort; that runs 
through every memorial on this mall; that connects us to all those who 
struggled and sacrificed and stood here before. It is how this nation has 
overcome the greatest differences and the longest odds -- because there is 
no obstacle that can stand in the way of millions of voices calling for 
change. That is the belief with which we began this campaign, and that is 
how we will overcome what ails us now.

There is no doubt that our road will be long, that our climb will be steep. 
But never forget that the true character of our nation is revealed not 
during times of comfort and ease, but by the right we do when the moment is 
hard. I ask you to help reveal that character once more, and together, we 
can carry forward as one nation, and one people, the legacy of our 
forefathers that we celebrate today.

Thank you, America. God bless you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Also in this database: Barack Obama - Inaugural Address


Audio & Image (Screenshot) Source: YouTube.com 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text = Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. Audio & Image = 
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.