 

 

Barack Obama

First Weekly Presidential Address

First Broadcast 24 January 2009, Washington, D.C.

 

[as prepared for delivery]

We begin this year and this Administration in the midst of an unprecedented 
crisis that calls for unprecedented action. Just this week, we saw more 
people file for unemployment than at any time in the last twenty-six years, 
and experts agree that if nothing is done, the unemployment rate could 
reach double digits. Our economy could fall $1 trillion short of its full 
capacity, which translates into more than $12,000 in lost income for a 
family of four. And we could lose a generation of potential, as more young 
Americans are forced to forgo college dreams or the chance to train for the 
jobs of the future.

In short, if we do not act boldly and swiftly, a bad situation could become 
dramatically worse.

That is why I have proposed an American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan to 
immediately jumpstart job creation as well as long-term economic growth. I 
am pleased to say that both parties in Congress are already hard at work on 
this plan, and I hope to sign it into law in less than a month.

It’s a plan that will save or create three to four million jobs over the 
next few years, and one that recognizes both the paradox and the promise of 
this moment -- the fact that there are millions of Americans trying to find 
work even as, all around the country, there’s so much work to be done. 
That’s why this is not just a short-term program to boost employment. It’s 
one that will invest in our most important priorities like energy and 
education; health care and a new infrastructure that are necessary to keep 
us strong and competitive in the 21st century.

Today I’d like to talk specifically about the progress we expect to make in 
each of these areas.

To accelerate the creation of a clean energy economy, we will double our 
capacity to generate alternative sources of energy like wind, solar, and 
biofuels over the next three years. We’ll begin to build a new electricity 
grid that lay down more than 3,000 miles of transmission lines to convey 
this new energy from coast to coast. We’ll save taxpayers $2 billion a year 
by making 75% of federal buildings more energy efficient, and save the 
average working family $350 on their energy bills by weatherizing 2.5 
million homes.

To lower health care cost, cut medical errors, and improve care, we’ll 
computerize the nation’s health record in five years, saving billions of 
dollars in health care costs and countless lives. And we’ll protect health 
insurance for more than 8 million Americans who are in danger of losing 
their coverage during this economic downturn.

To ensure our children can compete and succeed in this new economy, we’ll 
renovate and modernize 10,000 schools, building state-of-the-art 
classrooms, libraries, and labs to improve learning for over five million 
students. We’ll invest more in Pell Grants to make college affordable for 
seven million more students, provide a $2,500 college tax credit to four 
million students, and triple the number of fellowships in science to help 
spur the next generation of innovation.

Finally, we will rebuild and retrofit America to meet the demands of the 
21st century. That means repairing and modernizing thousands of miles of 
America’s roadways and providing new mass transit options for millions of 
Americans. It means protecting America by securing 90 major ports and 
creating a better communications network for local law enforcement and 
public safety officials in the event of an emergency. And it means 
expanding broadband access to millions of Americans, so business can 
compete on a level-playing field, wherever they’re located.

I know that some are skeptical about the size and scale of this recovery 
plan. I understand that skepticism, which is why this recovery plan must 
and will include unprecedented measures that will allow the American people 
to hold my Administration accountable for these results. We won’t just 
throw money at our problems -- we’ll invest in what works. Instead of 
politicians doling out money behind a veil of secrecy, decisions about 
where we invest will be made public, and informed by independent experts 
whenever possible. We’ll launch an unprecedented effort to root out waste, 
inefficiency, and unnecessary spending in our government, and every 
American will be able to see how and where we spend taxpayer dollars by 
going to a new website called recovery.gov  .

No one policy or program will solve the challenges we face right now, nor 
will this crisis recede in a short period of time. But if we act now and 
act boldly; if we start rewarding hard work and responsibility once more; 
if we act as citizens and not partisans and begin again the work of 
remaking America, then I have faith that we will emerge from this trying 
time even stronger and more prosperous than we were before.

Thanks for listening.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Image Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Copyright Status: Text = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.