 

 

Barack Obama

First Speech Before the United Nations General Assembly

delivered 23 September 2009, New York, NY

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[as prepared for delivery]

Good morning.  Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, fellow delegates, 
ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to address you for the first time as 
the 44th President of the United States.  I -- I come before you humbled by 
the responsibility that the American people have placed upon me, mindful of 
the enormous challenges of our moment in history, and determined to act 
boldly and collectively on behalf of justice and prosperity at home and 
abroad.

I have been in office for just nine months -- though some days it seems a 
lot longer.  I am well aware of the expectations that accompany my 
presidency around the world.  These expectations are not about me.  Rather, 
they are rooted, I believe, in a discontent with a status quo that has 
allowed us to be increasingly defined by our differences, and outpaced by 
our problems.  But they are also rooted in hope -- the hope that real 
change is possible, and the hope that America will be a leader in bringing 
about such change.

I took office at a time when many around the world had come to view America 
with skepticism and distrust.  Part of this was due to misperceptions and 
misinformation about my country.  Part of this was due to opposition to 
specific policies, and a belief that on certain critical issues, America 
has acted unilaterally, without regard for the interests of others.  And 
this has fed an almost reflexive anti-Americanism, which too often has 
served as an excuse for collective inaction.

Now, like all of you, my responsibility is to act in the interest of my 
nation and my people, and I will never apologize for defending those 
interests.  But it is my deeply held belief that in the year 2009 -- more 
than at any point in human history -- the interests of nations and peoples 
are shared.  The religious convictions that we hold in our hearts can forge 
new bonds among people, or they can tear us apart.  The technology we 
harness can light the path to peace, or forever darken it.  The energy we 
use can sustain our planet, or destroy it.  What happens to the hope of a 
single child -- anywhere -- can enrich our world, or impoverish it.

In this hall, we come from many places, but we share a common future.  No 
longer do we have the luxury of indulging our differences to the exclusion 
of the work that we must do together.  I have carried this message from 
London to Ankara; from Port of Spain to Moscow; from Accra to Cairo; and it 
is what I will speak about today -- because the time has come for the world 
to move in a new direction.  We must embrace a new era of engagement based 
on mutual interest and mutual respect, and our work must begin now.

We know the future will be forged by deeds and not simply words.  Speeches 
alone will not solve our problems -- it will take persistent action.  For 
those who question the character and cause of my nation, I ask you to look 
at the concrete actions we have taken in just nine months.

On my first day in office, I prohibited -- without exception or 
equivocation -- the use of torture by the United States of America.  I 
ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed, and we are doing the hard work 
of forging a framework to combat extremism within the rule of law.  Every 
nation must know: America will live its values, and we will lead by 
example.

We have set a clear and focused goal:  to work with all members of this 
body to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies -- 
a network that has killed thousands of people of many faiths and nations, 
and that plotted to blow up this very building.  In Afghanistan and 
Pakistan, we and many nations here are helping these governments develop 
the capacity to take the lead in this effort, while working to advance 
opportunity and security for their people.

In Iraq, we are responsibly ending a war.  We have removed American combat 
brigades from Iraqi cities, and set a deadline of next August to remove all 
our combat brigades from Iraqi territory.  And I have made clear that we 
will help Iraqis transition to full responsibility for their future, and 
keep our commitment to remove all American troops by the end of 2011.

I have outlined a comprehensive agenda to seek the goal of a world without 
nuclear weapons.  In Moscow, the United States and Russia announced that we 
would pursue substantial reductions in our strategic warheads and 
launchers.  At the Conference on Disarmament, we agreed on a work plan to 
negotiate an end to the production of fissile materials for nuclear 
weapons.  And this week, my Secretary of State will become the first senior 
American representative to the annual Members Conference of the 
Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.

Upon taking office, I appointed a Special Envoy for Middle East Peace, and 
America has worked steadily and aggressively to advance the cause of two 
states -- Israel and Palestine -- in which peace and security take root, 
and the rights of both Israelis and Palestinians are respected. 
 
To confront climate change, we have invested $80 billion in clean energy.  
We have substantially increased our fuel-efficiency standards.  We have 
provided new incentives for conservation, launched an energy partnership 
across the Americas, and moved from a bystander to a leader in 
international climate negotiations.

To overcome an economic crisis that touches every corner of the world, we 
worked with the G20 nations to forge a coordinated international response 
of over $2 trillion in stimulus to bring the global economy back from the 
brink.  We mobilized resources that helped prevent the crisis from 
spreading further to developing countries.  And we joined with others to 
launch a $20 billion global food security initiative that will lend a hand 
to those who need it most, and help them build their own capacity.
 
We've also re-engaged the United Nations.  We have paid our bills.  We have 
joined the Human Rights Council.  We have signed the Convention of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities.  We have fully embraced the Millennium 
Development Goals.  And we address our priorities here, in this institution 
 -- for instance, through the Security Council meeting that I will chair 
tomorrow on nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament, and through the 
issues that I will discuss today.

This is what we have already done.  But this is just a beginning.  Some of 
our actions have yielded progress.  Some have laid the groundwork for 
progress in the future.  But make no mistake:  This cannot solely be 
America's endeavor.  Those who used to chastise America for acting alone in 
the world cannot now stand by and wait for America to solve the world's 
problems alone.  We have sought -- in word and deed -- a new era of 
engagement with the world.  And now is the time for all of us to take our 
share of responsibility for a global response to global challenges.

Now, if we are honest with ourselves, we need to admit that we are not 
living up to that responsibility.  Consider the course that we're on if we 
fail to confront the status quo:  Extremists sowing terror in pockets of 
the world; protracted conflicts that grind on and on; genocide; mass 
atrocities; more nations with nuclear weapons; melting ice caps and ravaged 
populations; persistent poverty and pandemic disease.  I say this not to 
sow fear, but to state a fact:  The magnitude of our challenges has yet to 
be met by the measure of our actions.

This body was founded on the belief that the nations of the world could 
solve their problems together.  Franklin Roosevelt, who died before he 
could see his vision for this institution become a reality, put it this way 
-- and I quote:  "The structure of world peace cannot be the work of one 
man, or one party, or one nation….  It cannot be a peace of large nations 
-- or of small nations.  It must be a peace which rests on the cooperative 
effort of the whole world."

The cooperative effort of the whole world.  Those words ring even more true 
today, when it is not simply peace, but our very health and prosperity that 
we hold in common.  Yet we also know that this body is made up of sovereign 
states.  And sadly, but not surprisingly, this body has often become a 
forum for sowing discord instead of forging common ground; a venue for 
playing politics and exploiting grievances rather than solving problems. 
After all, it is easy to walk up to this podium and point figures -- point 
fingers and stoke divisions.  Nothing is easier than blaming others for our 
troubles, and absolving ourselves of responsibility for our choices and our 
actions.  Anybody can do that.  Responsibility and leadership in the 21st 
century demand more. 

In an era when our destiny is shared, power is no longer a zero-sum game.  
No one nation can or should try to dominate another nation.  No world order 
that elevates one nation or group of people over another will succeed.  No 
balance of power among nations will hold.  The traditional divisions 
between nations of the South and the North make no sense in an 
interconnected world; nor do alignments of nations rooted in the cleavages 
of a long-gone Cold War.

The time has come to realize that the old habits, the old arguments, are 
irrelevant to the challenges faced by our people. They lead nations to act 
in opposition to the very goals that they claim to pursue -- and to vote, 
often in this body, against the interests of their own people.  They build 
up walls between us and the future that our people seek, and the time has 
come for those walls to come down.  Together, we must build new coalitions 
that bridge old divides -- coalitions of different faiths and creeds; of 
north and south, east, west, black, white, and brown.

The choice is ours.  We can be remembered as a generation that chose to 
drag the arguments of the 20th century into the 21st; that put off hard 
choices, refused to look ahead, failed to keep pace because we defined 
ourselves by what we were against instead of what we were for.  Or we can 
be a generation that chooses to see the shoreline beyond the rough waters 
ahead; that comes together to serve the common interests of human beings, 
and finally gives meaning to the promise embedded in the name given to this 
institution:  the United Nations.

That is the future America wants -- a future of peace and prosperity that 
we can only reach if we recognize that all nations have rights, but all 
nations have responsibilities as well.  That is the bargain that makes this 
work.  That must be the guiding principle of international cooperation.

Today, let me put forward four pillars that I believe are fundamental to 
the future that we want for our children:  non-proliferation and 
disarmament; the promotion of peace and security; the preservation of our 
planet; and a global economy that advances opportunity for all people.

First, we must stop the spread of nuclear weapons, and seek the goal of a 
world without them.

This institution was founded at the dawn of the atomic age, in part because 
man's capacity to kill had to be contained.  For decades, we averted 
disaster, even under the shadow of a superpower stand-off.  But today, the 
threat of proliferation is growing in scope and complexity.  If we fail to 
act, we will invite nuclear arms races in every region, and the prospect of 
wars and acts of terror on a scale that we can hardly imagine.

A fragile consensus stands in the way of this frightening outcome, and that 
is the basic bargain that shapes the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  It 
says that all nations have the right to peaceful nuclear energy; that 
nations with nuclear weapons have a responsibility to move toward 
disarmament; and those without them have the responsibility to forsake 
them.  The next 12 months could be pivotal in determining whether this 
compact will be strengthened or will slowly dissolve.

America intends to keep our end of the bargain.  We will pursue a new 
agreement with Russia to substantially reduce our strategic warheads and 
launchers.  We will move forward with ratification of the Test Ban Treaty, 
and work with others to bring the treaty into force so that nuclear testing 
is permanently prohibited.  We will complete a Nuclear Posture Review that 
opens the door to deeper cuts and reduces the role of nuclear weapons.  And 
we will call upon countries to begin negotiations in January on a treaty to 
end the production of fissile material for weapons.

I will also host a summit next April that reaffirms each nation's 
responsibility to secure nuclear material on its territory, and to help 
those who can't -- because we must never allow a single nuclear device to 
fall into the hands of a violent extremist.  And we will work to strengthen 
the institutions and initiatives that combat nuclear smuggling and theft.

All of this must support efforts to strengthen the NPT.  Those nations that 
refuse to live up to their obligations must face consequences.  Let me be 
clear, this is not about singling out individual nations -- it is about 
standing up for the rights of all nations that do live up to their 
responsibilities.  Because a world in which IAEA inspections are avoided 
and the United Nation's demands are ignored will leave all people less 
safe, and all nations less secure.

In their actions to date, the governments of North Korea and Iran threaten 
to take us down this dangerous slope.  We respect their rights as members 
of the community of nations.  I've said before and I will repeat, I am 
committed to diplomacy that opens a path to greater prosperity and more 
secure peace for both nations if they live up to their obligations.

But if the governments of Iran and North Korea choose to ignore 
international standards; if they put the pursuit of nuclear weapons ahead 
of regional stability and the security and opportunity of their own people; 
if they are oblivious to the dangers of escalating nuclear arms races in 
both East Asia and the Middle East -- then they must be held accountable.  
The world must stand together to demonstrate that international law is not 
an empty promise, and that treaties will be enforced.  We must insist that 
the future does not belong to fear.

That brings me to the second pillar for our future:  the pursuit of peace.

The United Nations was born of the belief that the people of the world can 
live their lives, raise their families, and resolve their differences 
peacefully.  And yet we know that in too many parts of the world, this 
ideal remains an abstraction -- a distant dream.  We can either accept that 
outcome as inevitable, and tolerate constant and crippling conflict, or we 
can recognize that the yearning for peace is universal, and reassert our 
resolve to end conflicts around the world.

That effort must begin with an unshakeable determination that the murder of 
innocent men, women and children will never be tolerated.  On this, no one 
can be -- there can be no dispute.  The violent extremists who promote 
conflict by distorting faith have discredited and isolated themselves.  
They offer nothing but hatred and destruction.  In confronting them, 
America will forge lasting partnerships to target terrorists, share 
intelligence, and coordinate law enforcement and protect our people.  We 
will permit no safe haven for al Qaeda to launch attacks from Afghanistan 
or any other nation.  We will stand by our friends on the front lines, as 
we and many nations will do in pledging support for the Pakistani people 
tomorrow.  And we will pursue positive engagement that builds bridges among 
faiths, and new partnerships for opportunity.

Our efforts to promote peace, however, cannot be limited to defeating 
violent extremists.  For the most powerful weapon in our arsenal is the 
hope of human beings -- the belief that the future belongs to those who 
would build and not destroy; the confidence that conflicts can end and a 
new day can begin.

And that is why we will support -- we will strengthen our support for 
effective peacekeeping, while energizing our efforts to prevent conflicts 
before they take hold.  We will pursue a lasting peace in Sudan through 
support for the people of Darfur and the implementation of the 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement, so that we secure the peace that the 
Sudanese people deserve. And in countries ravaged by violence -- from Haiti 
to Congo to East Timor -- we will work with the U.N. and other partners to 
support an enduring peace.

I will also continue to seek a just and lasting peace between Israel, 
Palestine, and the Arab world.  We will continue to work on that issue.  
Yesterday, I had a constructive meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu and 
President Abbas.  We have made some progress.  Palestinians have 
strengthened their efforts on security.  Israelis have facilitated greater 
freedom of movement for the Palestinians.  As a result of these efforts on 
both sides, the economy in the West Bank has begun to grow.  But more 
progress is needed.  We continue to call on Palestinians to end incitement 
against Israel, and we continue to emphasize that America does not accept 
the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements. 

The time has come -- the time has come to re-launch negotiations without 
preconditions that address the permanent status issues:  security for 
Israelis and Palestinians, borders, refugees, and Jerusalem.  And the goal 
is clear:  Two states living side by side in peace and security -- a Jewish 
state of Israel, with true security for all Israelis; and a viable, 
independent Palestinian state with contiguous territory that ends the 
occupation that began in 1967, and realizes the potential of the 
Palestinian people. 

As we pursue this goal, we will also pursue peace between Israel and 
Lebanon, Israel and Syria, and a broader peace between Israel and its many 
neighbors.  In pursuit of that goal, we will develop regional initiatives 
with multilateral participation, alongside bilateral negotiations. 
         
Now, I am not naïve.  I know this will be difficult.  But all of us -- not 
just the Israelis and the Palestinians, but all of us -- must decide 
whether we are serious about peace, or whether we will only lend it lip 
service.  To break the old patterns, to break the cycle of insecurity and 
despair, all of us must say publicly what we would acknowledge in private.  
The United States does Israel no favors when we fail to couple an 
unwavering commitment to its security with an insistence that Israel 
respect the legitimate claims and rights of the Palestinians. And -- And 
nations within this body do the Palestinians no favors when they choose 
vitriolic attacks against Israel over constructive willingness to recognize 
Israel's legitimacy and its right to exist in peace and security.

We must remember that the greatest price of this conflict is not paid by 
us.  It's not paid by politicians.  It's paid by the Israeli girl in Sderot 
who closes her eyes in fear that a rocket will take her life in the middle 
of the night.  It's paid for by the Palestinian boy in Gaza who has no 
clean water and no country to call his own.  These are all God's children.  
And after all the politics and all the posturing, this is about the right 
of every human being to live with dignity and security.  That is a lesson 
embedded in the three great faiths that call one small slice of Earth the 
Holy Land.  And that is why, even though there will be setbacks and false 
starts and tough days, I will not waver in my pursuit of peace. 

Third, we must recognize that in the 21st century, there will be no peace 
unless we take responsibility for the preservation of our planet.  And I 
thank the Secretary General for hosting the subject of climate change 
yesterday.

The danger posed by climate change cannot be denied.  Our responsibility to 
meet it must not be deferred.  If we continue down our current course, 
every member of this Assembly will see irreversible changes within their 
borders.  Our efforts to end conflicts will be eclipsed by wars over 
refugees and resources.  Development will be devastated by drought and 
famine.  Land that human beings have lived on for millennia will disappear. 
 Future generations will look back and wonder why we refused to act; why we 
failed to pass on -- why we failed to pass on an environment that was 
worthy of our inheritance.

And that is why the days when America dragged its feet on this issue are 
over.  We will move forward with investments to transform our energy 
economy, while providing incentives to make clean energy the profitable 
kind of energy.  We will press ahead with deep cuts in emissions to reach 
the goals that we set for 2020, and eventually 2050.  We will continue to 
promote renewable energy and efficiency, and share new technologies with 
countries around the world.  And we will seize every opportunity for 
progress to address this threat in a cooperative effort with the entire 
world. 

And those wealthy nations that did so much damage to the environment in the 
20th century must accept our obligation to lead.  But responsibility does 
not end there.  While we must acknowledge the need for differentiated 
responses, any effort to curb carbon emissions must include the 
fast-growing carbon emitters who can do more to reduce their air pollution 
without inhibiting growth.  And any effort that fails to help the poorest 
nations both adapt to the problems that climate change have already wrought 
and help them travel a path of clean development simply will not work.

It's hard to change something as fundamental as how we use energy.  I know 
that.  It's even harder to do so in the midst of a global recession.  
Certainly, it will be tempting to sit back and wait for others to move 
first.  But we cannot make this journey unless we all move forward 
together.  As we head into Copenhagen, let us resolve to focus on what each 
of us can do for the sake of our common future.

And this leads me to the final pillar that must fortify our future:  a 
global economy that advances opportunity for all people.

The world is still recovering from the worst economic crisis since the 
Great Depression.  In America, we see the engine of growth beginning to 
churn, and yet many still struggle to find a job or pay their bills.  
Across the globe, we find promising signs, but little certainty about what 
lies ahead.  And far too many people in far too many places live through 
the daily crises that challenge our humanity -- the despair of an empty 
stomach; the thirst brought on by dwindling water supplies; the injustice 
of a child dying from a treatable disease; or a mother losing her life as 
she gives birth.

In Pittsburgh, we will work with the world's largest economies to chart a 
course for growth that is balanced and sustained.  That means vigilance to 
ensure that we do not let up until our people are back to work.  That means 
taking steps to rekindle demand so that global recovery can be sustained.  
And that means setting new rules of the road and strengthening regulation 
for all financial centers, so that we put an end to the greed and the 
excess and the abuse that led us into this disaster, and prevent a crisis 
like this from ever happening again.

At a time of such interdependence, we have a moral and pragmatic interest, 
however, in broader questions of development -- the questions of 
development that existed even before this crisis happened.  And so America 
will continue our historic effort to help people feed themselves.  We have 
set aside $63 billion to carry forward the fight against HIV/AIDS, to end 
deaths from tuberculosis and malaria, to eradicate polio, and to strengthen 
public health systems.  We are joining with other countries to contribute 
H1N1 vaccines to the World Health Organization.  We will integrate more 
economies into a system of global trade.  We will support the Millennium 
Development Goals, and approach next year's summit with a global plan to 
make them a reality.  And we will set our sights on the eradication of 
extreme poverty in our time.

Now is the time for all of us to do our part.  Growth will not be sustained 
or shared unless all nations embrace their responsibilities.  And that 
means that wealthy nations must open their markets to more goods and extend 
a hand to those with less, while reforming international institutions to 
give more nations a greater voice.  And developing nations must root out 
the corruption that is an obstacle to progress -- for opportunity cannot 
thrive where individuals are oppressed and business have to pay bribes.  
That is why we support honest police and independent judges; civil society 
and a vibrant private sector.  Our goal is simple:  a global economy in 
which growth is sustained, and opportunity is available to all.

Now, the changes that I've spoken about today will not be easy to make.  
And they will not be realized simply by leaders like us coming together in 
forums like this, as useful as that may be.  For as in any assembly of 
members, real change can only come through the people we represent.  That 
is why we must do the hard work to lay the groundwork for progress in our 
own capitals. That's where we will build the consensus to end conflicts and 
to harness technology for peaceful purposes, to change the way we use 
energy, and to promote growth that can be sustained and shared.

I believe that the people of the world want this future for their children. 
 And that is why we must champion those principles which ensure that 
governments reflect the will of the people.  These principles cannot be 
afterthoughts -- democracy and human rights are essential to achieving each 
of the goals that I've discussed today, because governments of the people 
and by the people are more likely to act in the broader interests of their 
own people, rather than narrow interests of those in power.

The test of our leadership will not be the degree to which we feed the 
fears and old hatreds of our people.  True leadership will not be measured 
by the ability to muzzle dissent, or to intimidate and harass political 
opponents at home.  The people of the world want change.  They will not 
long tolerate those who are on the wrong side of history.

This Assembly's Charter commits each of us -- and I quote -- "to reaffirm 
faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human 
person, in the equal rights of men and women."  Among those rights is the 
freedom to speak your mind and worship as you please; the promise of 
equality of the races, and the opportunity for women and girls to pursue 
their own potential; the ability of citizens to have a say in how you are 
governed, and to have confidence in the administration of justice.  For 
just as no nation should be forced to accept the tyranny of another nation, 
no individual should be forced to accept the tyranny of their own people. 

As an African American, I will never forget that I would not be here today 
without the steady pursuit of a more perfect union in my country.  And that 
guides my belief that no matter how dark the day may seem, transformative 
change can be forged by those who choose to side with justice.  And I 
pledge that America will always stand with those who stand up for their 
dignity and their rights -- for the student who seeks to learn; the voter 
who demands to be heard; the innocent who longs to be free; the oppressed 
who yearns to be equal.

Democracy cannot be imposed on any nation from the outside. Each society 
must search for its own path, and no path is perfect.  Each country will 
pursue a path rooted in the culture of its people and in its past 
traditions.  And I admit that America has too often been selective in its 
promotion of democracy.  But that does not weaken our commitment; it only 
reinforces it.  There are basic principles that are universal; there are 
certain truths which are self-evident -- and the United States of America 
will never waver in our efforts to stand up for the right of people 
everywhere to determine their own destiny. 

Sixty-five years ago, a weary Franklin Roosevelt spoke to the American 
people in his fourth and final inaugural address. After years of war, he 
sought to sum up the lessons that could be drawn from the terrible 
suffering, the enormous sacrifice that had taken place.  "We have learned," 
he said, "to be citizens of the world, members of the human community."

The United Nations was built by men and women like Roosevelt from every 
corner of the world -- from Africa and Asia, from Europe to the Americas.  
These architects of international cooperation had an idealism that was 
anything but naïve -- it was rooted in the hard-earned lessons of war; 
rooted in the wisdom that nations could advance their interests by acting 
together instead of splitting apart.

Now it falls to us -- for this institution will be what we make of it.  The 
United Nations does extraordinary good around the world -- feeding the 
hungry, caring for the sick, mending  places that have been broken.  But it 
also struggles to enforce its will, and to live up to the ideals of its 
founding.

I believe that those imperfections are not a reason to walk away from this 
institution -- they are a calling to redouble our efforts.  The United 
Nations can either be a place where we bicker about outdated grievances, or 
forge common ground; a place where we focus on what drives us apart, or 
what brings us together; a place where we indulge tyranny, or a source of 
moral authority.  In short, the United Nations can be an institution that 
is disconnected from what matters in the lives of our citizens, or it can 
be an indispensable factor in advancing the interests of the people we 
serve. 

We have reached a pivotal moment.  The United States stands ready to begin 
a new chapter of international cooperation -- one that recognizes the 
rights and responsibilities of all nations.  And so, with confidence in our 
cause, and with a commitment to our values, we call on all nations to join 
us in building the future that our people so richly deserve.

Thank you very much, everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio & Image Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, & Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.