 

 

Barack Obama

Speech at Hradcany Square in Prague

delivered 5 April 2009, Czech Republic

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

Thank you so much. Thank you for this wonderful welcome. Thank you to the 
people of Prague. Thank you to the people of the Czech Republic. Today, I'm 
proud to stand here with you in the middle of this great city, in the 
center of Europe. And, to paraphrase one of my predecessors, I am also 
proud to be the man who brought Michelle Obama to Prague.1

To Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, to all the dignitaries who are here, 
thank you for your extraordinary hospitality. And to the people of the 
Czech Republic, thank you for your friendship to the United States.

I've learned over many years to appreciate the good company and the good 
humor of the Czech people in my hometown of Chicago. Behind me is a statue 
of a hero of the Czech people -- Tomas Masaryk. In 1918, after America had 
pledged its support for Czech independence, Masaryk spoke to a crowd in 
Chicago that was estimated to be over 100,000. I don't think I can match 
his record -- but I am honored to follow his footsteps from Chicago to 
Prague.

For over a thousand years, Prague has set itself apart from any other city 
in any other place. You've known war and peace. You've seen empires rise 
and fall. You've led revolutions in the arts and science, in politics and 
in poetry. Through it all, the people of Prague have insisted on pursuing 
their own path, and defining their own destiny. And this city -- this 
Golden City which is both ancient and youthful -- stands as a living 
monument to your unconquerable spirit.

When I was born, the world was divided, and our nations were faced with 
very different circumstances. Few people would have predicted that someone 
like me would one day become the President of the United States. Few people 
would have predicted that an American President would one day be permitted 
to speak to an audience like this in Prague. Few would have imagined that 
the Czech Republic would become a free nation, a member of NATO, a leader 
of a united Europe. Those ideas would have been dismissed as dreams.

We are here today because enough people ignored the voices who told them 
that the world could not change.

We're here today because of the courage of those who stood up and took 
risks to say that freedom is a right for all people, no matter what side of 
a wall they live on, and no matter what they look like.

We are here today because of the Prague Spring -- because the simple and 
principled pursuit of liberty and opportunity shamed those who relied on 
the power of tanks and arms to put down the will of a people.

We are here today because 20 years ago, the people of this city took to the 
streets to claim the promise of a new day, and the fundamental human rights 
that had been denied them for far too long. Sametov‡ Revoluce -- the Velvet 
Revolution taught us many things. It showed us that peaceful protest could 
shake the foundations of an empire, and expose the emptiness of an 
ideology. It showed us that small countries can play a pivotal role in 
world events, and that young people can lead the way in overcoming old 
conflicts. And it proved that moral leadership is more powerful than any 
weapon.

That's why I'm speaking to you in the center of a Europe that is peaceful, 
united and free -- because ordinary people believed that divisions could be 
bridged, even when their leaders did not. They believed that walls could 
come down; that peace could prevail.

We are here today because Americans and Czechs believed against all odds 
that today could be possible.

Now, we share this common history. But now this generation -- our 
generation -- cannot stand still. We, too, have a choice to make. As the 
world has become less divided, it has become more interconnected. And we've 
seen events move faster than our ability to control them -- a global 
economy in crisis, a changing climate, the persistent dangers of old 
conflicts, new threats and the spread of catastrophic weapons.

None of these challenges can be solved quickly or easily. But all of them 
demand that we listen to one another and work together; that we focus on 
our common interests, not on occasional differences; and that we reaffirm 
our shared values, which are stronger than any force that could drive us 
apart.  That is the work that we must carry on. That is the work that I 
have come to Europe to begin.

To renew our prosperity, we need action coordinated across borders. That 
means investments to create new jobs. That means resisting the walls of 
protectionism that stand in the way of growth. That means a change in our 
financial system, with new rules to prevent abuse and future crisis.

And we have an obligation to our common prosperity and our common humanity 
to extend a hand to those emerging markets and impoverished people who are 
suffering the most, even though they may have had very little to do with 
financial crises, which is why we set aside over a trillion dollars for the 
International Monetary Fund earlier this week, to make sure that everybody 
-- everybody -- receives some assistance.

Now, to protect our planet, now is the time to change the way that we use 
energy. Together, we must confront climate change by ending the world's 
dependence on fossil fuels, by tapping the power of new sources of energy 
like the wind and sun, and calling upon all nations to do their part. And I 
pledge to you that in this global effort, the United States is now ready to 
lead.

To provide for our common security, we must strengthen our alliance. NATO 
was founded 60 years ago, after Communism took over Czechoslovakia. That 
was when the free world learned too late that it could not afford division. 
So we came together to forge the strongest alliance that the world has ever 
known. And we should -- stood shoulder to shoulder -- year after year, 
decade after decade -- until an Iron Curtain was lifted, and freedom spread 
like flowing water.

This marks the 10th year of NATO membership for the Czech Republic. And I 
know that many times in the 20th century, decisions were made without you 
at the table. Great powers let you down, or determined your destiny without 
your voice being heard. I am here to say that the United States will never 
turn its back on the people of this nation. We are bound by shared values, 
shared history -- We are bound by shared values and shared history and the 
enduring promise of our alliance. NATO's Article V states it clearly: An 
attack on one is an attack on all. That is a promise for our time, and for 
all time.

The people of the Czech Republic kept that promise after America was 
attacked; thousands were killed on our soil, and NATO responded. NATO's 
mission in Afghanistan is fundamental to the safety of people on both sides 
of the Atlantic. We are targeting the same al Qaeda terrorists who have 
struck from New York to London, and helping the Afghan people take 
responsibility for their future. We are demonstrating that free nations can 
make common cause on behalf of our common security. And I want you to know 
that we honor the sacrifices of the Czech people in this endeavor, and 
mourn the loss of those you've lost.

But no alliance can afford to stand still. We must work together as NATO 
members so that we have contingency plans in place to deal with new 
threats, wherever they may come from. We must strengthen our cooperation 
with one another, and with other nations and institutions around the world, 
to confront dangers that recognize no borders. And we must pursue 
constructive relations with Russia on issues of common concern. 

Now, one of those issues that I'll focus on today is fundamental to the 
security of our nations and to the peace of the world -- that's the future 
of nuclear weapons in the 21st century.

The existence of thousands of nuclear weapons is the most dangerous legacy 
of the Cold War. No nuclear war was fought between the United States and 
the Soviet Union, but generations lived with the knowledge that their world 
could be erased in a single flash of light. Cities like Prague that existed 
for centuries, that embodied the beauty and the talent of so much of 
humanity, would have ceased to exist.

Today, the Cold War has disappeared but thousands of those weapons have 
not. In a strange turn of history, the threat of global nuclear war has 
gone down, but the risk of a nuclear attack has gone up. More nations have 
acquired these weapons. Testing has continued. Black market trade in 
nuclear secrets and nuclear materials abound. The technology to build a 
bomb has spread. Terrorists are determined to buy, build or steal one. Our 
efforts to contain these dangers are centered on a global non-proliferation 
regime, but as more people and nations break the rules, we could reach the 
point where the center cannot hold.

Now, understand, this matters to people everywhere. One nuclear weapon 
exploded in one city -- be it New York or Moscow, Islamabad or Mumbai, 
Tokyo or Tel Aviv, Paris or Prague -- could kill hundreds of thousands of 
people. And no matter where it happens, there is no end to what the 
consequences might be -- for our global safety, our security, our society, 
our economy, to our ultimate survival.

Some argue that the spread of these weapons cannot be stopped, cannot be 
checked -- that we are destined to live in a world where more nations and 
more people possess the ultimate tools of destruction. Such fatalism is a 
deadly adversary, for if we believe that the spread of nuclear weapons is 
inevitable, then in some way we are admitting to ourselves that the use of 
nuclear weapons is inevitable.

Just as we stood for freedom in the 20th century, we must stand together 
for the right of people everywhere to live free from fear in the 21st 
century. And as nuclear power -- as a nuclear power, as the only nuclear 
power to have used a nuclear weapon, the United States has a moral 
responsibility to act. We cannot succeed in this endeavor alone, but we can 
lead it, we can start it.

So today, I state clearly and with conviction America's commitment to seek 
the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons. I'm not naive. 
This goal will not be reached quickly -- perhaps not in my lifetime. It 
will take patience and persistence. But now we, too, must ignore the voices 
who tell us that the world cannot change. We have to insist, "Yes, we can."

Now, let me describe to you the trajectory we need to be on. First, the 
United States will take concrete steps towards a world without nuclear 
weapons. To put an end to Cold War thinking, we will reduce the role of 
nuclear weapons in our national security strategy, and urge others to do 
the same. Make no mistake: As long as these weapons exist, the United 
States will maintain a safe, secure and effective arsenal to deter any 
adversary, and guarantee that defense to our allies -- including the Czech 
Republic. But we will begin the work of reducing our arsenal.

To reduce our warheads and stockpiles, we will negotiate a new Strategic 
Arms Reduction Treaty with the Russians this year. President Medvedev and I 
began this process in London, and will seek a new agreement by the end of 
this year that is legally binding and sufficiently bold. And this will set 
the stage for further cuts, and we will seek to include all nuclear weapons 
states in this endeavor.

To achieve a global ban on nuclear testing, my administration will 
immediately and aggressively pursue U.S. ratification of the Comprehensive 
Test Ban Treaty. After more than five decades of talks, it is time for the 
testing of nuclear weapons to finally be banned.

And to cut off the building blocks needed for a bomb, the United States 
will seek a new treaty that verifiably ends the production of fissile 
materials intended for use in state nuclear weapons. If we are serious 
about stopping the spread of these weapons, then we should put an end to 
the dedicated production of weapons-grade materials that create them. 
That's the first step.

Second, together we will strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as 
a basis for cooperation.

The basic bargain is sound: Countries with nuclear weapons will move 
towards disarmament, countries without nuclear weapons will not acquire 
them, and all countries can access peaceful nuclear energy. To strengthen 
the treaty, we should embrace several principles. We need more resources 
and authority to strengthen international inspections. We need real and 
immediate consequences for countries caught breaking the rules or trying to 
leave the treaty without cause.

And we should build a new framework for civil nuclear cooperation, 
including an international fuel bank, so that countries can access peaceful 
power without increasing the risks of proliferation. That must be the right 
of every nation that renounces nuclear weapons, especially developing 
countries embarking on peaceful programs. And no approach will succeed if 
it's based on the denial of rights to nations that play by the rules. We 
must harness the power of nuclear energy on behalf of our efforts to combat 
climate change, and to advance peace opportunity for all people.

But we go forward with no illusions. Some countries will break the rules. 
That's why we need a structure in place that ensures when any nation does, 
they will face consequences.

Just this morning, we were reminded again of why we need a new and more 
rigorous approach to address this threat. North Korea broke the rules once 
again by testing a rocket that could be used for long range missiles. This 
provocation underscores the need for action -- not just this afternoon at 
the U.N. Security Council, but in our determination to prevent the spread 
of these weapons.

Rules must be binding. Violations must be punished. Words must mean 
something. The world must stand together to prevent the spread of these 
weapons. Now is the time for a strong international response -- now is the 
time for a strong international response, and North Korea must know that 
the path to security and respect will never come through threats and 
illegal weapons. All nations must come together to build a stronger, global 
regime. And that's why we must stand shoulder to shoulder to pressure the 
North Koreans to change course.

Iran has yet to build a nuclear weapon. My administration will seek 
engagement with Iran based on mutual interests and mutual respect. We 
believe in dialogue. But in that dialogue we will present a clear choice. 
We want Iran to take its rightful place in the community of nations, 
politically and economically. We will support Iran's right to peaceful 
nuclear energy with rigorous inspections. That's a path that the Islamic 
Republic can take. Or the government can choose increased isolation, 
international pressure, and a potential nuclear arms race in the region 
that will increase insecurity for all.

So let me be clear: Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile activity poses a 
real threat, not just to the United States, but to Iran's neighbors and our 
allies. The Czech Republic and Poland have been courageous in agreeing to 
host a defense against these missiles. As long as the threat from Iran 
persists, we will go forward with a missile defense system that is 
cost-effective and proven. If the Iranian threat is eliminated, we will 
have a stronger basis for security, and the driving force for missile 
defense construction in Europe will be removed.

So, finally, we must ensure that terrorists never acquire a nuclear weapon. 
This is the most immediate and extreme threat to global security. One 
terrorist with one nuclear weapon could unleash massive destruction. Al 
Qaeda has said it seeks a bomb and that it would have no problem with using 
it. And we know that there is unsecured nuclear material across the globe. 
To protect our people, we must act with a sense of purpose without delay.

So today I am announcing a new international effort to secure all 
vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years. We will set 
new standards, expand our cooperation with Russia, pursue new partnerships 
to lock down these sensitive materials.

We must also build on our efforts to break up black markets, detect and 
intercept materials in transit, and use financial tools to disrupt this 
dangerous trade. Because this threat will be lasting, we should come 
together to turn efforts such as the Proliferation Security Initiative and 
the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism into durable 
international institutions. And we should start by having a Global Summit 
on Nuclear Security that the United States will host within the next year.

Now, I know that there are some who will question whether we can act on 
such a broad agenda. There are those who doubt whether true international 
cooperation is possible, given inevitable differences among nations. And 
there are those who hear talk of a world without nuclear weapons and doubt 
whether it's worth setting a goal that seems impossible to achieve.

But make no mistake: We know where that road leads. When nations and 
peoples allow themselves to be defined by their differences, the gulf 
between them widens. When we fail to pursue peace, then it stays forever 
beyond our grasp. We know the path when we choose fear over hope. To 
denounce or shrug off a call for cooperation is an easy but also a cowardly 
thing to do. That's how wars begin. That's where human progress ends.

There is violence and injustice in our world that must be confronted. We 
must confront it not by splitting apart but by standing together as free 
nations, as free people. I know that a call to arms can stir the souls of 
men and women more than a call to lay them down. But that is why the voices 
for peace and progress must be raised together.

Those are the voices that still echo through the streets of Prague. Those 
are the ghosts of 1968. Those were the joyful sounds of the Velvet 
Revolution. Those were the Czechs who helped bring down a nuclear-armed 
empire without firing a shot.

Human destiny will be what we make of it. And here in Prague, let us honor 
our past by reaching for a better future. Let us bridge our divisions, 
build upon our hopes, accept our responsibility to leave this world more 
prosperous and more peaceful than we found it. Together we can do it.

Thank you very much. Thank you, Prague.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


1 Reference to then President John F. Kennedy's remark -- upon observing 
the overwhelmingly positive reception given his wife upon their official 
first visit to France -- as "the man who accompanied Jacqueline Kennedy to 
Paris."

Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.