 

 

Barack Obama

Address to the New Economic School Graduating Class

delivered 7 July 2009, Gostinny Dvor, Moscow, Russia

 

Audio mp3 of Address 

Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good morning. It is a great honor for me to join you at the New Economic 
School. Michelle and I are so pleased to be in Moscow. And as somebody who 
was born in Hawaii, I'm glad to be here in July instead of January.

I know that NES is a young school, but I speak to you today with deep 
respect for Russia's timeless heritage. Russian writers have helped us 
understand the complexity of the human experience, and recognize eternal 
truths. Russian painters, composers, and dancers have introduced us to new 
forms of beauty. Russian scientists have cured disease, sought new 
frontiers of progress, and helped us go to space.

These are contributions that are not contained by Russia's borders, as vast 
as those borders are. Indeed, Russia's heritage has touched every corner of 
the world, and speaks to the humanity that we share. That includes my own 
country, which has been blessed with Russian immigrants for decades; we've 
been enriched by Russian culture, and enhanced by Russian cooperation. And 
as a resident of Washington, D.C., I continue to benefit from the 
contributions of Russians -- specifically, from Alexander Ovechkin. We're 
very pleased to have him in Washington, D.C.

Here at NES, you have inherited this great cultural legacy, but your focus 
on economics is no less fundamental to the future of humanity. As Pushkin 
said, "Inspiration is needed in geometry just as much as poetry." And 
today, I want particularly to speak to those of you preparing to graduate. 
You're poised to be leaders in academia and industry; in finance and 
government. But before you move forward, it's worth reflecting on what has 
already taken place during your young lives.

Like President Medvedev and myself, you're not old enough to have witnessed 
the darkest hours of the Cold War, when hydrogen bombs were tested in the 
atmosphere, and children drilled in fallout shelters, and we reached the 
brink of nuclear catastrophe. But you are the last generation born when the 
world was divided. At that time, the American and Soviet armies were still 
massed in Europe, trained and ready to fight. The ideological trenches of 
the last century were roughly in place. Competition in everything from 
astrophysics to athletics was treated as a zero-sum game. If one person 
won, then the other person had to lose.

And then, within a few short years, the world as it was ceased to be. Now, 
make no mistake: This change did not come from any one nation. The Cold War 
reached a conclusion because of the actions of many nations over many 
years, and because the people of Russia and Eastern Europe stood up and 
decided that its end would be peaceful.

With the end of the Cold War, there were extraordinary expectations -- for 
peace and for prosperity; for new arrangements among nations, and new 
opportunities for individuals. Like all periods of great change, it was a 
time of ambitious plans and endless possibilities. But, of course, things 
don't always work out exactly as planned. Back in 1993, shortly after this 
school opened, one NES student summed up the difficulty of change when he 
told a reporter, and I quote him: "The real world is not so rational as on 
paper." The real world is not so rational as on paper.

Over two tumultuous decades, that truth has been borne out around the 
world. Great wealth has been created, but it has not eliminated vast 
pockets of crushing poverty. Poverty exists here, it exists in the United 
States, and it exists all around the world. More people have gone to the 
ballot box, but too many governments still fail to protect the rights of 
their people. Ideological struggles have diminished, but they've been 
replaced by conflicts over tribe and ethnicity and religion. A human being 
with a computer can hold the same amount of information stored in the 
Russian State Library, but that technology can also be used to do great 
harm.

In a new Russia, the disappearance of old political and economic 
restrictions after the end of the Soviet Union brought both opportunity and 
hardship. A few prospered, but many more did not. There were tough times. 
But the Russian people showed strength and made sacrifices, and you 
achieved hard-earned progress through a growing economy and greater 
confidence. And despite painful times, many in Eastern Europe and Russia 
are much better off today than 20 years ago.

We see that progress here at NES -- a school founded with Western support 
that is now distinctly Russian; a place of learning and inquiry where the 
test of an idea is not whether it is Russian or American or European, but 
whether it works. Above all, we see that progress in all of you -- young 
people with a young century to shape as you see fit.
 
Your lifetime coincides with this era of transition. But think about the 
fundamental questions asked when this school was founded. What kind of 
future is Russia going to have? What kind of future are Russia and America 
going to have together?  What world order will replace the Cold War? Those 
questions still don't have clear answers, and so now they must be answered 
by you -- by your generation in Russia, in America, and around the world. 
You get to decide. And while I cannot answer those questions for you, I can 
speak plainly about the future that America is seeking.

To begin with, let me be clear: America wants a strong, peaceful, and 
prosperous Russia. This belief is rooted in our respect for the Russian 
people, and a shared history between our nations that goes beyond 
competition. Despite our past rivalry, our people were allies in the 
greatest struggle of the last century. Recently, I noted this when I was in 
Normandy -- for just as men from Boston and Birmingham risked all that they 
had to storm those beaches and scale those cliffs, Soviet soldiers from 
places like Kazan and Kiev endured unimaginable hardships to repeal -- to 
repel an invasion, and turn the tide in the east. As President John Kennedy 
said, "No nation in history of battle ever suffered more than the Soviet 
Union in the Second World War."

So as we honor this past, we also recognize the future benefit that will 
come from a strong and vibrant Russia. Think of the issues that will define 
your lives: security from nuclear weapons and extremism; access to markets 
and opportunity; health and the environment; an international system that 
protects sovereignty and human rights, while promoting stability and 
prosperity. These challenges demand global partnership, and that 
partnership will be stronger if Russia occupies its rightful place as a 
great power.

Yet unfortunately, there is sometimes a sense that old assumptions must 
prevail, old ways of thinking; a conception of power that is rooted in the 
past rather than in the future. There is the 20th century view that the 
United States and Russia are destined to be antagonists, and that a strong 
Russia or a strong America can only assert themselves in opposition to one 
another. And there is a 19th century view that we are destined to vie for 
spheres of influence, and that great powers must forge competing blocs to 
balance one another.

These assumptions are wrong. In 2009, a great power does not show strength 
by dominating or demonizing other countries. The days when empires could 
treat sovereign states as pieces on a chess board are over. As I said in 
Cairo  , given our independence, any world 
order that -- given our interdependence, any world order that tries to 
elevate one nation or one group of people over another will inevitably 
fail. The pursuit of power is no longer a zero-sum game -- progress must be 
shared.

That's why I have called for a "reset" in relations between the United 
States and Russia. This must be more than a fresh start between the Kremlin 
and the White House -- though that is important and I've had excellent 
discussions with both your President and your Prime Minister. It must be a 
sustained effort among the American and Russian people to identify mutual 
interests, and expand dialogue and cooperation that can pave the way to 
progress.

This will not be easy. It's difficult to forge a lasting partnership 
between former adversaries, it's hard to change habits that have been 
ingrained in our governments and our bureaucracies for decades. But I 
believe that on the fundamental issues that will shape this century, 
Americans and Russians share common interests that form a basis for 
cooperation.  It is not for me to define Russia's national interests, but I 
can tell you about America's national interests, and I believe that you 
will see that we share common ground.

First, America has an interest in reversing the spread of nuclear weapons 
and preventing their use.

In the last century, generations of Americans and Russians inherited the 
power to destroy nations, and the understanding that using that power would 
bring about our own destruction. In 2009, our inheritance is different. You 
and I don't have to ask whether American and Russian leaders will respect a 
balance of terror -- we understand the horrific consequences of any war 
between our two countries. But we do have to ask this question: We have to 
ask whether extremists who have killed innocent civilians in New York and 
in Moscow will show that same restraint. We have to ask whether 10 or 20 or 
50 nuclear-armed nations will protect their arsenals and refrain from using 
them.

This is the core of the nuclear challenge in the 21st century. The notion 
that prestige comes from holding these weapons, or that we can protect 
ourselves by picking and choosing which nations can have these weapons, is 
an illusion. In the short period since the end of the Cold War, we've 
already seen India, Pakistan, and North Korea conduct nuclear tests. 
Without a fundamental change, do any of us truly believe that the next two 
decades will not bring about the further spread of these nuclear weapons?

That's why America is committed to stopping nuclear proliferation, and 
ultimately seeking a world without nuclear weapons. That is consistent with 
our commitment under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That is our 
responsibility as the world's two leading nuclear powers. And while I know 
this goal won't be met soon, pursuing it provides the legal and moral 
foundation to prevent the proliferation and eventual use of nuclear 
weapons.

We're already taking important steps to build this foundation. Yesterday, 
President Medvedev and I made progress on negotiating a new treaty that 
will substantially reduce our warheads and delivery systems. We renewed our 
commitment to clean, safe and peaceful nuclear energy, which must be a 
right for all nations that live up to their responsibilities under the NPT. 
And we agreed to increase cooperation on nuclear security, which is 
essential to achieving the goal of securing all vulnerable nuclear material 
within four years.

As we keep our own commitments, we must hold other nations accountable for 
theirs. Whether America or Russia, neither of us would benefit from a 
nuclear arms race in East Asia or the Middle East. That's why we should be 
united in opposing North Korea's efforts to become a nuclear power, and 
opposing Iran's efforts to acquire a nuclear weapon. And I'm pleased that 
President Medvedev and I agreed upon a joint threat assessment of the 
ballistic challenges -- ballistic missile challenges of the 21st century, 
including from Iran and North Korea.

This is not about singling out individual nations -- it's about the 
responsibilities of all nations. If we fail to stand together, then the NPT 
and the Security Council will lose credibility, and international law will 
give way to the law of the jungle. And that benefits no one. As I said in 
Prague, rules must be binding, violations must be punished, and words must 
mean something.

The successful enforcement of these rules will remove causes of 
disagreement. I know Russia opposes the planned configuration for missile 
defense in Europe. And my administration is reviewing these plans to 
enhance the security of America, Europe and the world. And I've made it 
clear that this system is directed at preventing a potential attack from 
Iran. It has nothing to do with Russia. In fact, I want to work together 
with Russia on a missile defense architecture that makes us all safer. But 
if the threat from Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile program is 
eliminated, the driving force for missile defense in Europe will be 
eliminated, and that is in our mutual interests.

Now, in addition to securing the world's most dangerous weapons, a second 
area where America has a critical national interest is in isolating and 
defeating violent extremists.

For years, al Qaeda and its affiliates have defiled a great religion of 
peace and justice, and ruthlessly murdered men, women and children of all 
nationalities and faiths. Indeed, above all, they have murdered Muslims. 
And these extremists have killed in Amman and Bali; Islamabad and Kabul; 
and they have the blood of Americans and Russians on their hands. They're 
plotting to kill more of our people, and they benefit from safe havens that 
allow them to train and operate -- particularly along the border of 
Pakistan and Afghanistan.

And that's why America has a clear goal: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat 
al Qaeda and its allies in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We seek no bases, nor 
do we want to control these nations. Instead, we want to work with 
international partners, including Russia, to help Afghans and Pakistanis 
advance their own security and prosperity. And that's why I'm pleased that 
Russia has agreed to allow the United States to supply our coalition forces 
through your territory. Neither America nor Russia has an interest in an 
Afghanistan or Pakistan governed by the Taliban. It's time to work together 
on behalf of a different future -- a future in which we leave behind the 
great game of the past and the conflict of the present; a future in which 
all of us contribute to the security of Central Asia.

Now, beyond Afghanistan, America is committed to promoting the opportunity 
that will isolate extremists. We are helping the Iraqi people build a 
better future, and leaving Iraq to the Iraqis. We're pursuing the goal of 
two states, Israel and Palestine, living in peace and security. We're 
partnering with Muslim communities around the world to advance education, 
health, and economic development. In each of these endeavors, I believe 
that the Russian people share our goals, and will benefit from success -- 
and we need to partner together.

Now, in addition to these security concerns, the third area that I will 
discuss is America's interest in global prosperity. And since we have so 
many economists and future businessmen and women in the room, I know this 
is of great interest to you.

We meet in the midst of the worst global recession in a generation. I 
believe that the free market is the greatest force for creating and 
distributing wealth that the world has known. But wherever the market is 
allowed to run rampant -- through excessive risk-taking, a lack of 
regulation, or corruption -- then all are endangered, whether we live on 
the Mississippi or on the Volga.

In America, we're now taking unprecedented steps to jumpstart our economy 
and reform our system of regulation. But just as no nation can wall itself 
off from the consequences of a global crisis, no one can serve as the sole 
engine of global growth. You see, during your lives, something fundamental 
has changed. And while this crisis has shown us the risks that come with 
change, that risk is overwhelmed by opportunity.
 
Think of what's possible today that was unthinkable two decades ago. A 
young woman with an Internet connection in Bangalore, India can compete 
with anybody anywhere in the world. An entrepreneur with a start-up company 
in Beijing can take his business global. An NES professor in Moscow can 
collaborate with colleagues at Harvard or Stanford. That's good for all of 
us, because when prosperity is created in India, that's a new market for 
our goods; when new ideas take hold in China, that pushes our businesses to 
innovate; when new connections are forged among people, all of us are 
enriched.

There is extraordinary potential for increased cooperation between 
Americans and Russians. We can pursue trade that is free and fair and 
integrated with the wider world. We can boost investment that creates jobs 
in both our countries, we can forge partnerships on energy that tap not 
only traditional resources, like oil and gas, but new sources of energy 
that will drive growth and combat climate change. All of that, Americans 
and Russians can do together.

Now, government can promote this cooperation, but ultimately individuals 
must advance this cooperation, because the greatest resource of any nation 
in the 21st century is you. It's people; it's young people especially. And 
the country which taps that resource will be the country that will succeed. 
That success depends upon economies that function within the rule of law. 
As President Medvedev has rightly said, a mature and effective legal system 
is a condition for sustained economic development. People everywhere should 
have the right to do business or get an education without paying a bribe. 
Whether they are in America or Russia or Africa or Latin America, that's 
not a American idea or a Russian idea -- that's how people and countries 
will succeed in the 21st century.

And this brings me to the fourth issue that I will discuss -- America's 
interest in democratic governments that protect the rights of their people.

By no means is America perfect. But it is our commitment to certain 
universal values which allows us to correct our imperfections, to improve 
constantly, and to grow stronger over time. Freedom of speech and assembly 
has allowed women, and minorities, and workers to protest for full and 
equal rights at a time when they were denied. The rule of law and equal 
administration of justice has busted monopolies, shut down political 
machines that were corrupt, ended abuses of power. Independent media have 
exposed corruption at all levels of business and government. Competitive 
elections allow us to change course and hold our leaders accountable. If 
our democracy did not advance those rights, then I, as a person of African 
ancestry, wouldn't be able to address you as an American citizen, much less 
a President. Because at the time of our founding, I had no rights -- people 
who looked like me. But it is because of that process that I can now stand 
before you as President of the United States.

So around the world, America supports these values because they are moral, 
but also because they work. The arc of history shows that governments which 
serve their own people survive and thrive; governments which serve only 
their own power do not. Governments that represent the will of their people 
are far less likely to descend into failed states, to terrorize their 
citizens, or to wage war on others. Governments that promote the rule of 
law, subject their actions to oversight, and allow for independent 
institutions are more dependable trading partners. And in our own history, 
democracies have been America's most enduring allies, including those we 
once waged war with in Europe and Asia -- nations that today live with 
great security and prosperity.

Now let me be clear: America cannot and should not seek to impose any 
system of government on any other country, nor would we presume to choose 
which party or individual should run a country. And we haven't always done 
what we should have on that front. Even as we meet here today, America 
supports now the restoration of the democratically-elected President of 
Honduras, even though he has strongly opposed American policies. We do so 
not because we agree with him. We do so because we respect the universal 
principle that people should choose their own leaders, whether they are 
leaders we agree with or not.

And that leads me to the final area that I will discuss, which is America's 
interest in an international system that advances cooperation while 
respecting the sovereignty of all nations.

State sovereignty must be a cornerstone of international order. Just as all 
states should have the right to choose their leaders, states must have the 
right to borders that are secure, and to their own foreign policies. That 
is true for Russia, just as it is true for the United States. Any system 
that cedes those rights will lead to anarchy. That's why we must apply this 
principle to all nations -- and that includes nations like Georgia and 
Ukraine. America will never impose a security arrangement on another 
country. For any country to become a member of an organization like NATO, 
for example, a majority of its people must choose to; they must undertake 
reforms; they must be able to contribute to the Alliance's mission. And let 
me be clear: NATO should be seeking collaboration with Russia, not 
confrontation.

And more broadly, we need to foster cooperation and respect among all 
nations and peoples. As President of the United States, I will work 
tirelessly to protect America's security and to advance our interests. But 
no one nation can meet the challenges of the 21st century on its own, nor 
dictate its terms to the world. That is something that America now 
understands, just as Russia understands. That's why America seeks an 
international system that lets nations pursue their interests peacefully, 
especially when those interests diverge; a system where the universal 
rights of human beings are respected, and violations of those rights are 
opposed; a system where we hold ourselves to the same standards that we 
apply to other nations, with clear rights and responsibilities for all.

There was a time when Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin could shape the 
world in one meeting. Those days are over. The world is more complex today. 
Billions of people have found their voice, and seek their own measure of 
prosperity and self-determination in every corner of the planet. Over the 
past two decades, we've witnessed markets grow, wealth spread, and 
technology used to build -- not destroy. We've seen old hatreds pass, 
illusions of differences between people lift and fade away; we've seen the 
human destiny in the hands of more and more human beings who can shape 
their own destinies. Now, we must see that the period of transition which 
you have lived through ushers in a new era in which nations live in peace, 
and people realize their aspirations for dignity, security, and a better 
life for their children. That is America's interest, and I believe that it 
is Russia's interest as well.

I know that this future can seem distant. Change is hard. In the words of 
that NES student back in 1993, the real world is not so rational as on 
paper. But think of the change that has unfolded with the passing of time. 
One hundred years ago, a czar ruled Russia, and Europe was a place of 
empire.  When I was born, segregation was still the law of the land in 
parts of America, and my father's Kenya was still a colony. When you were 
born, a school like this would have been impossible, and the Internet was 
only known to a privileged few.

You get to decide what comes next. You get to choose where change will take 
us, because the future does not belong to those who gather armies on a 
field of battle or bury missiles in the ground; the future belongs to young 
people with an education and the imagination to create. That is the source 
of power in this century. And given all that has happened in your two 
decades on Earth, just imagine what you can create in the years to come.

Every country charts its own course. Russia has cut its way through time 
like a mighty river through a canyon, leaving an indelible mark on human 
history as it goes. As you move this story forward, look to the future that 
can be built if we refuse to be burdened by the old obstacles and old 
suspicions; look to the future that can be built if we partner on behalf of 
the aspirations we hold in common. Together, we can build a world where 
people are protected, prosperity is enlarged, and our power truly serves 
progress. And it is all in your hands. Good luck to all of you.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.