 

 

Barack Obama

Address in Strasbourg Town Hall

delivered 3 April 2009, Rhenus Sports Arena

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you so much. Good afternoon. Bon après-midi. And guten tag. It is a 
great honor for me to be here in Europe, to be here in Strasbourg. I want 
to make just a few acknowledgements. I want to thank the President of 
France, Nicolas Sarkozy, for being such a terrific friend. I want to thank 
his wife, Madam Sarkozy. They just hosted us at the palace and could not 
have been more gracious.

I want to thank the Charge d'Affaires, Mark Pekala, and his wife, Maria, 
who were helping to organize us; Vincent Carver, who's the Counsel General 
in Strasbourg. And I want to thank the Mayor of Strasbourg, Roland Ries, 
for his hospitality.

It is wonderful to be here with all of you and to have an opportunity not 
only to speak to you but also to take some questions. You know, oftentimes 
during these foreign trips you see everything from behind a window, and 
what we thought was important was for me to have an opportunity to not only 
speak with you but also to hear from you, because that's ultimately how we 
can learn about each other. But before I take some questions, I hope you 
don't mind me making a few remarks about my country and yours; the 
relationship between the United States and the relationship between Europe.

Strasbourg has been known throughout history as a city at the crossroads. 
Over thousands of years, you straddled many kingdoms and many cultures. Two 
rivers are joined here. Two religions have flourished in your churches. 
Three languages comprise an ancient oath that bears the city's name. You 
served as a center of industry and commerce, a seat of government and 
education, where Goethe studied and Pasteur taught and Gutenberg imagined 
his printing press.

So it's fitting because we find ourselves at a crossroads as well -- all of 
us -- for we've arrived at a moment where each nation and every citizen 
must choose at last how we respond to a world that has grown smaller and 
more connected than at any time in its existence.

We've known for a long time that the revolutions in communications and 
technology that took place in the 20th century would hold out enormous 
promise for the 21st century -- the promise of broader prosperity and 
mobility; of new breakthroughs and discoveries that could help us lead 
richer and fuller lives. But the same forces that have brought us closer 
together have also given rise to new dangers that threaten to tear our 
world apart -- dangers that cannot be contained by the nearest border or 
the furthest ocean.

Even with the Cold War now over, the spread of nuclear weapons or the theft 
of nuclear material could lead to the extermination of any city on the 
planet. And this weekend in Prague, I will lay out an agenda to seek the 
goal of a world without nuclear weapons.

We also know that the pollution from cars in Boston or from factories in 
Beijing are melting the ice caps in the Arctic, and that that will disrupt 
weather patterns everywhere. The terrorists who struck in London, in New 
York, plotted in distant caves and simple apartments much closer to your 
home. And the reckless speculation of bankers that has new fueled a global 
economic downturn that's inflicting pain on workers and families is 
happening everywhere all across the globe.

The economic crisis has proven the fact of our interdependence in the most 
visible way yet. Not more than a generation ago, it would have been 
difficult to imagine that the inability of somebody to pay for a house in 
Florida could contribute to the failure of the banking system in Iceland. 
Today what's difficult to imagine is that we did not act sooner to shape 
our future.

Now, there's plenty of blame to go around for what has happened, and the 
United States certainly shares its -- shares blame for what has happened. 
But every nation bears responsibility for what lies ahead, especially now, 
for whether it's the recession or climate change, or terrorism, or drug 
trafficking, poverty, or the proliferation of nuclear weapons, we have 
learned that without a doubt there's no quarter of the globe that can wall 
itself off from the threats of the 21st century.

The one way forward -- the only way forward -- is through a common and 
persistent effort to combat fear and want wherever they exist. That is the 
challenge of our time -- and we can not fail to meet it, together.

Now, we take for granted the peace of a Europe that's united, but for 
centuries Strasbourg has been attacked and occupied and claimed by the 
warring nations of this continent. Now, today in this city, the presence of 
the European Parliament and the Council of Europe stand as symbols of a 
Europe that is united peaceful and free.

Now, we take this peace and prosperity for granted, but this destination 
was not easily reached, nor was it predestined. The buildings that are now 
living monuments to European unity were not drawn from simple blueprints. 
They were born out of the blood of the first half of the 20th century and 
the resolve of the second. Men and women had to have the imagination to see 
a better future, and the courage to reach for it. Europeans and Americans 
had to have the sense of common purpose to join one another, and the 
patience and the persistence to see a long twilight struggle through.

It was 61 years ago this April that a Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe 
helped to deliver hope to a continent that had been decimated by war. Amid 
the ashes and the rubble that surrounded so many cities like this one, 
America joined with you in an unprecedented effort that secured a lasting 
prosperity not just in Europe, but around the world -- on both sides of the 
Atlantic.

One year later, exactly 60 years ago tomorrow, we ensured our shared 
security when 12 of our nations signed a treaty in Washington that spelled 
out a simple agreement: An attack on one would be viewed as an attack on 
all. Without firing a single shot, this Alliance would prevent the Iron 
Curtain from descending on the free nations of Western Europe. It would 
lead eventually to the crumbling of a wall in Berlin and the end of the 
Communist threat. Two decades later, with 28 member nations that stretched 
from the Baltic to the Mediterranean, NATO remains the strongest alliance 
that the world has ever known.

At the crossroads where we stand today, this shared history gives us hope 
-- but it must not give us rest. This generation cannot stand still. We 
cannot be content merely to celebrate the achievements of the 20th century, 
or enjoy the comforts of the 21st century; we must learn from the past to 
build on its success. We must renew our institutions, our alliances. We 
must seek the solutions to the challenges of this young century.

This is our generation. This is our time. And I am confident that we can 
meet any challenge as long as we are together.

Such an effort is never easy. It's always harder to forge true partnerships 
and sturdy alliances than to act alone, or to wait for the action of 
somebody else. It's more difficult to break down walls of division than to 
simply allow our differences to build and our resentments to fester. So we 
must be honest with ourselves. In recent years we've allowed our Alliance 
to drift. I know that there have been honest disagreements over policy, but 
we also know that there's something more that has crept into our 
relationship. In America, there's a failure to appreciate Europe's leading 
role in the world. Instead of celebrating your dynamic union and seeking to 
partner with you to meet common challenges, there have been times where 
America has shown arrogance and been dismissive, even derisive.

But in Europe, there is an anti-Americanism that is at once casual but can 
also be insidious. Instead of recognizing the good that America so often 
does in the world, there have been times where Europeans choose to blame 
America for much of what's bad.

On both sides of the Atlantic, these attitudes have become all too common. 
They are not wise. They do not represent the truth. They threaten to widen 
the divide across the Atlantic and leave us both more isolated. They fail 
to acknowledge the fundamental truth that America cannot confront the 
challenges of this century alone, but that Europe cannot confront them 
without America.

So I've come to Europe this week to renew our partnership, one in which 
America listens and learns from our friends and allies, but where our 
friends and allies bear their share of the burden. Together, we must forge 
common solutions to our common problems.

So let me say this as clearly as I can: America is changing, but it cannot 
be America alone that changes. We are confronting the greatest economic 
crisis since World War II. The only way to confront this unprecedented 
crisis is through unprecedented coordination.

Over the last few days, I believe that we have begun that effort. The G20 
summit in London was a success of nations coming together, working out 
their differences, and moving boldly forward. All of us are moving 
aggressively to restore growth and lending. All of us have agreed to the 
most substantial overhaul of our international financial system in a 
generation. No one is exempt. No more will the world's financial players be 
able to make risky bets at the expense of ordinary people. Those days are 
over. We are ushering a new era of responsibility, and that is something we 
should all be proud of.

As we take these steps, we also affirm that we must not erect new barriers 
to commerce; that trade wars have no victors. We can't give up on open 
markets, even as we work to ensure that trade is both free and fair. We 
cannot forget how many millions that trade has lifted out of poverty and 
into the middle class. We can't forget that part of the freedom that our 
nations stood for throughout the Cold War was the opportunity that comes 
from free enterprise and individual liberty.

I know it can be tempting to turn inward, and I understand how many people 
and nations have been left behind by the global economy. And that's why the 
United States is leading an effort to reach out to people around the world 
who are suffering, to provide them immediate assistance and to extend 
support for food security that will help them lift themselves out of 
poverty.

All of us must join together in this effort, not just because it is right, 
but because by providing assistance to those countries most in need, we 
will provide new markets, we will drive the growth of the future that lifts 
all of us up. So it's not just charity; it's a matter of understanding that 
our fates are tied together -- not just the fate of Europe and America, but 
the fate of the entire world.

And as we restore our common prosperity, we must stand up for our common 
security. As we meet here today, NATO has still embarked on its first 
mission overseas in Afghanistan, and my administration has just completed a 
review of our policy in that region.

Now, I understand that this war has been long. Our allies have already 
contributed greatly to this endeavor. You've sent your sons and daughters 
to fight alongside ours, and we honor and respect their service and 
sacrifice.

And I also know that there's some who have asked questions about why are we 
still in Afghanistan? What does this mean? What's its purpose? Understand 
we would not deploy our own troops if this mission was not indispensable to 
our common security. As President, I can tell you there's no decision more 
difficult, there's no duty more painful, than signing a letter to the 
family of somebody who has died in war.

So I understand that there is doubt about this war in Europe. There's doubt 
at times even in the United States. But know this: The United States of 
America did not choose to fight a war in Afghanistan. We were attacked by 
an al Qaeda network that killed thousands on American soil, including 
French and Germans. Along the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan, those 
terrorists are still plotting today. And they're -- if there is another al 
Qaeda attack, it is just as likely, if not more, that it will be here in 
Europe in a European city.

So I've made a commitment to Afghanistan, and I've asked our NATO partners 
for more civilian and military support and assistance. We do this with a 
clear purpose: to root out the terrorists who threaten all of us, to train 
the Afghan people to sustain their own security and to help them advance 
their own opportunity, and to quicken the day when our troops come home.

We have no interest in occupying Afghanistan. We have more than enough to 
do in rebuilding America. But this is a mission that tests whether nations 
can come together in common purpose on behalf of our common security. 
That's what we did together in the 20th century. And now we need an 
alliance that is even stronger than when it brought down a mighty wall in 
Berlin.

That's why we applaud France's decision to expand and deepen its 
participation in NATO, just as we support a strong European defense. That's 
why we welcome Croatia and Albania into the fold. And that is why we must 
ensure that NATO is equipped and capable of facing down the threats and 
challenges of this new age. This is one of our central tasks.

And we also know that in the 21st century, security is more complex than 
military power. This is the generation that must also stop the spread of 
the pollution that is slowly killing our planet, from shrinking coastlines 
and devastating storms to widespread misery and famine and drought. The 
effects of climate change are now in plain sight.

Europe has acted with a seriousness of purpose that this challenge demands. 
And in the last few months I'm proud to say that America has begun to take 
unprecedented steps to transform the way that we use energy. We appointed a 
special envoy to help us lead a global effort to reduce the carbon that we 
send in the atmosphere.

But we all know that time is running out. And that means that America must 
do more. Europe must do more. China and India must do more. Rolling back 
the tide of a warming planet is a responsibility that we have to ourselves, 
to our children, and all of those who will inherit God's creation long 
after we are gone. So let us meet that responsibility together. I am 
confident that we can meet it. But we have to begin today.

And let us resolve that when future generations look back on ours, they 
will be able to say that we did our part to make this world more peaceful.

It's perhaps the most difficult work of all to resolve age-old conflicts, 
to heal ancient hatreds, to dissolve the lines of suspicion between 
religions and cultures, and people who may not look like us, or have the 
same faith that we do, or come from the same place. But just because it's 
difficult does not make the work any less important. It does not absolve us 
from trying.

And to that end, America will sustain our effort to forge and secure a 
lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. I've sent a clear 
message to the leaders and peoples of Iran that while we have real 
differences, we also have mutual interests, and we seek new engagement 
based on mutual respect. And it is in that spirit that America and Europe 
must reach out to the vast majority of Muslims in our nations and in all 
nations. We seek only hope of peace and partnership, and the opportunity of 
a better life.

We cannot simply solve these conflicts militarily. We have to open our 
minds and we have to open our hearts to the differences among us and the 
commonalities between us. With every threat that we face, a new day is 
possible. We can't get there alone. As it was in the darkest days after 
World War II, when a continent lay in ruins and an atomic cloud had settled 
over the world, we must make the journey together.

We know that transformational change is possible. We know this because of 
three reasons: First, because, for all our differences, there are certain 
values that bind us together and reveal our common humanity: the universal 
longing to live a life free from fear, and free from want; a life marked by 
dignity and respect and simple justice.

Our two republics were founded in service of these ideals. In America, it 
is written into our founding documents as "life, liberty, and the pursuit 
of happiness." In France: "Liberté" -- absolutely -- "egalité, fraternité." 
Our moral authority is derived from the fact that generations of our 
citizens have fought and bled to uphold these values in our nations and 
others.

And that's why we can never sacrifice them for expedience's sake. That's 
why I've ordered the closing of the detention center in Guantanamo Bay. 
That's why I can stand here today and say without equivocation or exception 
that the United States of America does not and will not torture.

The second way that we can turn challenge into opportunity is through our 
persistence in the face of difficulty. In an age of instant gratification, 
it's tempting to believe that every problem can and should be solved in the 
span of a week. When these problems aren't solved, we conclude that our 
efforts to solve them must have been in vain. But that's not how progress 
is made. Progress is slow. It comes in fits and starts, because we try and 
we fail and then we try something else. And when there are setbacks and 
disappointments we keep going. We hold firm to our core values, and we hold 
firm to our faith in one another.

The third reason we know that we can change this world is because of men 
and women like the young people who are here today. Each time we find 
ourselves at a crossroads, paralyzed by worn debates and stale thinking, 
the old ways of doing things, a new generation rises up and shows the way 
forward. As Robert Kennedy once told a crowd of students in South Africa, 
"It is a revolutionary world that we live in, and thus, it is young people 
who must take the lead." Because young people are unburdened by the biases 
or prejudices of the past. That is a great privilege of youth. But it's 
also a tremendous responsibility because it is you who must ultimately 
decide what we do with this incredible moment in history.

We just emerged from an era marked by irresponsibility, and it would be 
easy to choose the path of selfishness or apathy, of blame or division. But 
that is a danger that we cannot afford. The challenges are too great. It is 
a revolutionary world that we live in, and history shows us that we can do 
improbable, sometimes impossible things. We stand here in a city that used 
to stand at the center of European conflict; only now it is the center of 
European union. We did that together. Now we must not give up on one 
another. We must renew this relationship for a new generation, in a new 
century. We must hold firm to our common values, hold firm to our faith in 
one another. Together, I'm confident that we can achieve the promise of a 
new day.

Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q & A

Please, everybody have a seat. So the way this works -- do we have 
microphones in the audience? Yes? So just raise your hand if you want a 
question, and I will call on you. I think we have some translators. If you 
want to speak French and German, my French and German are terrible. But we 
have people who speak very good French and very good German who will 
translate your question, and translate my answer. And I will try to get as 
many questions as I can get in, in the remaining 20 minutes or so that we 
have.

And I will start with this young lady right here. Yes, you, right there. 
Please introduce yourself. Hold on, I can't hear you yet. Can we increase 
the sound on the mic? Let's try again. Oh, I called -- now, I just want to 
say I did not call on the American on purpose.

Q [Inaudible.]

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, after only two months, that's kind of a big 
question. But here's what I would like to see. And, look, you aim high 
knowing that you'll make mistakes and sometimes you'll fall short.

Number one, my first task is to restore the economy of the United States, 
but, in concert with other nations, to restore global economic growth. 
That's my number one task, because we are going through the worst crisis 
since the 1930s.

That means that not only do we have to fix the banking system, put 
common-sense regulations in place to prevent a crisis like this from ever 
happening again, making sure that we are keeping trade relationships 
between countries open -- but it also means helping developing countries 
and poor countries who, through no fault of their own, have been devastated 
by this crisis, and if we allow them to collapse will ultimately be a drag 
on our ability to prosper.

Emerging markets have actually been the drivers of economic growth over the 
last several years. If we can get millions of Chinese to prosper, that is 
ultimately good for us. If we can get all the Indians in poverty to 
suddenly be able to buy a refrigerator or send their children to college, 
that will raise everybody's living standards, because those will be 
enormous new markets for all of us.

So what I want to be able to do is not only fix the immediate crisis, but, 
working in partnership with other countries, create a path for sustainable, 
responsible growth. And I think we can do that. There are a lot of people 
who benefit from globalization, but there are also people who have been 
harmed by globalization. Globalization in and of itself can be good, but 
can also be destructive.

If we create the right framework so that what happened in the banking 
system can't happen again, then globalization can be good for everybody and 
lift everybody's living standards up. And by the way, history has shown us 
that we are most vulnerable to war and conflict when people are desperate 
economically. And nobody knows that history more than Europe.

So that would be number one. Number two is I would like to be able to say 
that as a consequence of my work, that we drastically lessened the threat 
of not only terrorism but also nuclear terrorism. And we can't reduce the 
threat of a nuclear weapon going off unless those who possess the most 
nuclear weapons -- the United States and Russia -- take serious steps to 
actually reduce our stockpiles.

So we are going to -- so we want to pursue that vigorously in the years 
ahead. And I had a excellent meeting with President Medvedev of Russia to 
get started that process of reducing our nuclear stockpiles, which will 
then give us greater moral authority to say to Iran, don't develop a 
nuclear weapon; to say to North Korea, don't proliferate nuclear weapons.

In my own country, what I think is very important is that we finally get a 
health care system that is reliable and cost-effective. That's something 
that -- you know, that's a social safety net that exits in almost all of 
Europe that doesn't exist in the United States. You have millions of people 
who work hard every single day, but if they get sick they could potentially 
lose everything. And in a country as wealthy as ours, that's not acceptable 
to me.

So we are going to work hard to make sure that we have a health care system 
that won't be identical to what you have in Europe -- each country has its 
own traditions and approaches -- but that provides people quality, 
affordable, accessible health care.

And then, I would like to see us in the United States take the lead on a 
new approach to energy -- because none of the developed countries are going 
to be able to sustain their growth if we don't start using energy 
differently, and the world cannot survive all countries using energy in the 
same ways that we use it.

I was meeting with the Indian Prime Minister yesterday after the summit -- 
a very good and wise man, Prime Minister Singh -- and he was talking about 
how Indian growth rates have gone up 9 percent every year. They need to 
grow at that pace in order to bring hundreds of millions of people in their 
country out of abject poverty, desperate poverty. They have to grow at a 
rapid pace.

Now, he actually is committed to working towards dealing with the climate 
change issue, but he made a very simple point, which is a point that I 
understood before the meeting and all of us should not forget -- and that 
is that you cannot expect poor countries, or relatively poor countries, to 
be partners with us on climate change if we are not taking the lead, given 
that our carbon footprint is many times more than theirs per capita. I 
mean, each one of us in the developed world, I don't care how 
environmentally conscious you are, how green you are -- I'm sure there are 
some green folks here --

Q Yes!

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Yes! I don't care how green you are, you are -- you have a 
much bigger carbon footprint than the average Indian, or the average person 
from China. And so we in developed countries then -- it's critical for us 
to lead by example by becoming more energy efficient, and we also have to 
harness technology and shared scientific breakthroughs in order to find 
more sustainable energy patterns.

Now, I've got other things that I want to do, but that's a pretty long 
list. Let me go on to a few more questions.

All right, now, I know there's some other Americans in the crowd. But do me 
a favor, Americans, wait till we get back home and I'll do a town hall 
there -- because I want to hear from my French and German and European 
friends. All right. And -- wait, wait, wait -- this gentleman right here in 
the glasses.

Q Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a student from Heidelberg, Germany, and -- 
my mother tongue is German, but my French is not good enough, so I ask my 
question in English.

You mentioned in your speech that we are a lucky generation. We live in 
peace, we live in democracies and free states, and we really -- we are very 
pleased to have this situation in Europe. But this is not the case all over 
the world, even not in Europe. Look to Belarus, for example; there's an 
autocratic regime.

And so my question concerns the many children all over the world that live 
in poverty, under human rights violation. They have hunger, they have no 
education, and other problems. So what is your strategy, Mr. President, to 
solve this problem?

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, it's an excellent question, and the -- first of all, 
I think one of the things that we should be very proud of from the G20 
summit yesterday was that we made a significant commitment to additional 
resources through the IMF and other mechanisms to provide assistance to 
emerging markets and poor countries that, as I said, are bearing the burden 
of a collapse in the financial system that they had nothing to do with.

The problem is so many of these countries had export-oriented markets, and 
when the economies contracted in our developing nations, it made them 
extremely vulnerable. You know, you have a country like Botswana, which is 
actually a well-managed country that has made enormous progress, but their 
main revenue generator is diamond sales, and they have literally seen the 
diamond market collapse -- in part because they couldn't get trade 
financing, in part because the demand in developed countries has dropped 
off. So we started to make progress there. Our most important task right 
now is helping them get through this crisis.

Over the long term, though, we've got to have a strategy that recognizes 
that the interest of the developed world in feeding the hungry, in 
educating children, that that's not just charity; it's in our interest. 
There's not a direct correlation between poverty and violence and conflict 
and terrorism. But I can tell you that if children have no education 
whatsoever, if young men are standing idle each and every day, and feel 
completely detached and completely removed from the modern world, they are 
more likely, they are more susceptible to ideologies that appeal to 
violence and destruction.

If you have no health facilities whatsoever in countries in Africa, these 
days a pandemic can get on a plane and be in Strasbourg or New York City or 
Chicago overnight. So we better think about making sure that there are 
basic public health facilities and public health infrastructure in those 
countries, because we can't shield ourselves from these problems. So that 
means developed countries have to increase aid, but it also means that the 
countries who are receiving aid have to use it wisely.

My father was from Kenya. And when I traveled to Kenya -- I had just been 
elected to the United States Senate -- everybody was very excited and they 
greeted me as if I was already a head of state, and there were people 
waving and lining the streets. I went to speak at a university and I had to 
be honest, which was, America has an obligation to provide Kenya help on a 
whole range of issues, but if Kenya doesn't solve its own corruption 
problem, then Kenya will never grow. It will never be able to provide for 
its own.

And so there's nothing wrong with the developed nations insisting that we 
will increase our commitments, that we will design our aid programs more 
effectively, that we will open up our markets to trade from poor countries, 
but that we will also insist that there is good governance and rule of law, 
and other critical factors in order to make these countries work.

We spend so much time talking about democracy -- and obviously we should be 
promoting democracy everywhere we can. But democracy, a well-functioning 
society that promotes liberty and equality and fraternity, a 
well-functioning society does not just depend on going to the ballot box. 
It also means that you're not going to be shaken down by police because the 
police aren't getting properly paid. It also means that if you want to 
start a business, you don't have to pay a bribe. I mean, there are a whole 
host of other factors that people need to -- need to recognize in building 
a civil society that allows a country to be successful. And hopefully that 
will -- that approach will be reflected not just in my administration's 
policies but in the policies that are pursued by international agencies 
around the world. Okay, good.

All right, right up -- I've got two of you, so you have to choose one. 
Which one should I call on? I don't want to -- you're standing right next 
to each other. Oops. Well, I'm sorry, you know what, he actually called on 
the -- no, no, no, I was actually pointing down here. I didn't see those 
two ladies back there. Here you go, this one right here. Go ahead.

Q Well, hello, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I'm from Chicago, excuse me.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Are you?

Q I'm also a student in the high school -- the international high school --

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, no, I'm sorry, if you're American I can't --

Q I'm also French.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Wait, wait, wait, wait, hold on. She said she's also 
French. What does that mean?

Q Double nationality.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Dual nationality. What do you think, should we let her ask 
the question? Okay, go ahead.

Q Thank you. Do you think that the economic crisis is an opportunity to 
restructure our industries in an ecological and sustainable way? And I also 
was wondering whether the dog was already in the White House or not.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: The -- we are getting a dog. This is a very important 
question in the United States -- what kind of dog we're getting and when 
we're getting it. It should be there soon.

I do think that in crisis there's always opportunity if it's used properly. 
So, for example, in the United States we decided to pass a large stimulus 
package to help growth at a time when the private sector was having a very 
difficult time.

Now, we could have just spent the money on the same old ways of doing 
things, but part of what we've decided was, if we're going to be spending a 
lot of government money anyway, why not spend it to double the amount of 
renewable energy? Why not spend it on retrofitting existing government 
buildings so that we drastically reduce their energy consumption? Why not 
start building high-speed rail?

One thing that, as an American who is proud as anybody of my country, I am 
always jealous about European trains. And I said to myself, why can't we 
have -- why can't we have high-speech rail? And so we're investing in that 
as well.

So on the transportation front, on -- with respect to building 
construction, on a whole range of issues, we are investing in new 
technologies that will make us more energy efficient. And that is one of 
the building blocks that's needed in order for us to reduce our carbon 
footprint and to work with other countries to achieve the climate change 
goals that I think are going to be so important.

I'm getting the signal that I've only got time for two more questions. Oh! 
I'm going to ask that young man in the suit -- because he got dressed up 
today. I know he doesn't usually wear a suit -- yes. Go ahead, go ahead.

Q I just want to know what do you expect from the French and the European 
countries regarding the war on terror?

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Good. That's a good question. Look, I think that over the 
last seven, eight years, as I said in my speech, a lot of tensions have 
developed between the United States and Europe. And one of the legacies, I 
hope, from my administration is, is that we start bringing our historic 
alliance back together in a much more effective way.

Now, that doesn't mean that we're not going to have honest disagreements. 
All countries have disagreements between themselves. But I think that we 
can work much more effectively and cooperatively, and maintain that core 
trust that we have towards each other.

Nowhere have we seen more suspicion than around questions of war and peace 
and how we respond to terrorism. When 9/11 happened, Europe responded as a 
true friend would respond to the United States, saying, "We are all 
Americans." All of us have a stake in ensuring that innocent people who 
were just going about their business, going to work, suddenly find 
themselves slaughtered -- all of us have an interest in preventing that 
kind of vicious, evil act.

But after the initial NATO engagement in Afghanistan, we got sidetracked by 
Iraq, and we have not fully recovered that initial insight that we have a 
mutual interest in ensuring that organizations like al Qaeda cannot 
operate. And I think that it is important for Europe to understand that 
even though I'm now President and George Bush is no longer President, al 
Qaeda is still a threat, and that we cannot pretend somehow that because 
Barack Hussein Obama got elected as President, suddenly everything is going 
to be okay.

It is going to be a very difficult challenge. Al Qaeda is still bent on 
carrying out terrorist activity. It is -- don't fool yourselves -- because 
some people say, well, you know, if we changed our policies with respect to 
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, or if we were more respectful towards the 
Muslim world, suddenly these organizations would stop threatening us. 
That's just not the case.

It is true that we have to change our behavior in showing the Muslim world 
greater respect, and changing our language and changing our tone. It is 
true that we have to work very hard for Israeli-Palestinian peace. But what 
is also true is that these organizations are willing to kill innocent 
people because of a twisted, distorted ideology. And we, as democracies and 
as people who value human life, can't allow those organizations to operate.

So here's the bottom line. The United States has reviewed and redesigned 
its approach to Afghanistan. We believe that we cannot just win militarily. 
We have to win through development aid. We have to win through increasing 
the capacity of the Afghan government to provide basic services to its 
people and to uphold rule of law. We have to work with the Pakistani 
government so that they are more trusted by their population and have more 
control so that they can then go -- help us go after these terrorists. We 
have to encourage diplomacy in the region.

So it can't just be a military strategy and we will be in partnership with 
Europe on the development side and on the diplomatic side. But there will 
be a military component to it, and Europe should not simply expect the 
United States to shoulder that burden alone. We should not because this is 
a joint problem and it requires joint effort.

One last point I will make. In dealing with terrorism, we can't lose sight 
of our values and who we are. That's why I closed Guantanamo. That's why I 
made very clear that we will not engage in certain interrogation practices. 
I don't believe that there is a contradiction between our security and our 
values. And when you start sacrificing your values, when you lose yourself, 
then over the long term that will make you less secure. When we saw what 
happened in Abu Ghraib, that wasn't good for our security -- that was a 
recruitment tool for terrorism. Humiliating people is never a good strategy 
to battle terrorism.

So we are going to conduct our operations in a way that reflect our best 
selves and make sure that we are proud. And that, in turn, will allow the 
Europeans, I think, to feel good about our joint efforts, and also not to 
have excuses not to participate in those joint efforts. All right?

Okay, last question. All right, let me see here. All right, that young lady 
in the red right there, right there. She had all her friends helping her 
out.

Q Thank you. Hi, I'm Enis Otto [phonetic] from Heidelberg. And I'm totally 
European. And first of all, I wanted to tell you that your name in 
Hungarian means "peach."

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Peach?

Q Yes.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Oh, okay. Well, how about that. I did not know that.

Q Yes, now you know it. And we wanted to know if you -- did you ever regret 
to have run for presidency till now? I mean, well, did you ever ask 
yourself, am I sure to manage -- yes.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Yes, it's a good question. Michelle definitely asked that 
question. You know, there are -- there have been times, certainly, during 
the campaign, and there have been times over the last several months where 
you feel a lot of weight on your shoulders. There's no doubt about it.

During the campaign, the biggest sacrifice -- the thing that was most 
difficult was that I was away from my family all the time. In addition to 
missing -- in addition to being jealous about high-speed rail and the nice 
trains here, I'm also jealous of the fact that campaigns here only last a 
few months, whereas in the United States we were running for two years. So 
I was away from home all the time, and that was very difficult because not 
only do I have a wonderful wife, but I have two perfect daughters. And so, 
you know, I missed them a lot.

But the nice thing is now that I'm President, it turns out I have this 
really nice office in my house called the Oval Office, and so it only takes 
me a few seconds to get upstairs, and I'm home for dinner every night.

You also lose privacy and autonomy -- or anonymity. You know, it's very 
frustrating now -- it used to be when I came to Europe, that I could just 
wander down to a café and sit and have some wine and watch people go by, 
and go into a little shop, and watch the sun go down. Now I'm in hotel 
rooms all the time and I have security around me all the time. And so just 
-- you know, losing that ability to just take a walk, that is something 
that is frustrating.

But having said all that, I truly believe that there's nothing more noble 
than public service. Now, that doesn't mean that you have to run for 
President. You know, you might work for Doctors Without Borders, or you 
might volunteer for an -- or you might be somebody working for the United 
Nations, or you might be the mayor of Strasbourg. Right? I mean, they're 
all -- you might volunteer in your own community.

But the point is that what I found at a very young age was that if you only 
think about yourself -- how much money can I make, what can I buy, how nice 
is my house, what kind of fancy car do I have -- that over the long term I 
think you get bored. I think your life becomes -- I think if you're only 
thinking about yourself, your life becomes diminished; and that the way to 
live a full life is to think about, what can I do for others? How can I be 
a part of this larger project of making a better world?

Now, that could be something as simple as making -- as the joy of taking 
care of your family and watching your children grow and succeed. But I 
think especially for the young people here, I hope you also consider other 
ways that you can serve, because the world has so many challenges right 
now, there's so many opportunities to make a difference, and it would be a 
tragedy if all of you who are so talented and energetic, if you let that go 
to waste; if you just stood back and watched the world pass you by.

Better to jump in, get involved. And it does mean that sometimes you'll get 
criticized and sometimes you'll fail and sometimes you'll be disappointed, 
but you'll have a great adventure, and at the end of your life hopefully 
you'll be able to look back and say, I made a difference.

All right. Thank you, everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.