 

 

Barack Obama

Speech at the Memorial Service for Fort Hood Servicemen and Servicewomen

delivered 10 November 2009, Fort Hood, TX

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf  
   
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

To the Fort Hood community; to Admiral Mullen; General Casey; General Cone
 ; Secretary McHugh; Secretary Gates; 
most importantly, to family, friends, and members of our Armed Forces: We 
come together filled with sorrow for the 13 Americans that we have lost, 
with gratitude for the lives that they led, and with a determination to 
honor them through the work we carry on.

This is a time of war. Yet these Americans did not die on a foreign field 
of battle. They were killed here, on American soil, in the heart of this 
great state and the heart of this great American community. This is the 
fact that makes the tragedy even more painful, even more incomprehensible.

For those families who have lost a loved one, no words can fill the void 
that's been left. We knew these men and women as soldiers and caregivers. 
You knew them as mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, sisters and 
brothers.

But here is what you must also know: Your loved ones endure through the 
life of our nation.  Their memory will be honored in the places they lived 
and by the people they touched. Their life's work is our security, and the 
freedom that we all too often take for granted. Every evening that the sun 
sets on a tranquil town; every dawn that a flag is unfurled; every moment 
that an American enjoys life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness -- that 
is their legacy.

Neither this country, nor the values upon which we were founded, could 
exist without men and women like these 13 Americans. And that is why we 
must pay tribute to their stories.

    Chief Warrant Officer Michael Cahill had served in the National Guard
    and worked as a physician's assistant for decades. A husband and father
    of three, he was so committed to his patients that on the day he died
    he was back at work just weeks after having had a heart attack.

    Major Libardo Eduardo Caraveo spoke little English when he came to
    America as a teenager. But he put himself through college, earned a
    Ph.D., and was helping combat units cope with the stress of deployment.
    He's survived by his wife, sons, and step-daughters.
      
    Staff Sergeant Justin DeCrow joined the Army right after high school,
    married his high school sweetheart, and had served as a light wheeled
    mechanic and satellite communications operator. He was known as an
    optimist, a mentor, and a loving husband and loving father.

    After retiring from the Army as a major, John Gaffaney cared for
    society's most vulnerable during two decades as a psychiatric nurse. He
    spent three years trying to return to active duty in this time of war,
    and he was preparing to deploy to Iraq as a captain. He leaves behind a
    wife and son.

    Specialist Frederick Greene was a Tennessean who wanted to join the
    Army for a long time, and did so in 2008, with the support of his
    family. As a combat engineer he was a natural leader, and he is
    survived by his wife and two daughters.

    Specialist Jason Hunt was also recently married, with three children to
    care for. He joined the Army after high school.  He did a tour in Iraq,
    and it was there that he reenlisted for six more years on his 21st
    birthday so that he could continue to serve.

    Staff Sergeant Amy Krueger was an athlete in high school, joined the
    Army shortly after 9/11, and had since returned home to speak to
    students about her experience.  When her mother told her she couldn't
    take on Osama bin Laden by herself, Amy replied: "Watch me."

    Private First Class Aaron Nemelka was an Eagle Scout who just recently
    signed up to do one of the most dangerous jobs in the service --
    diffuse bombs -- so that he could help save lives. He was proudly
    carrying on a tradition of military service that runs deep within his
    family. 

    Private First Class Michael Pearson loved his family and loved his
    music, and his goal was to be a music teacher. He excelled at playing
    the guitar, and could create songs on the spot and show others how to
    play. He joined the military a year ago, and was preparing for his
    first deployment.

    Captain Russell Seager worked as a nurse for the VA, helping veterans
    with Post-Traumatic Stress. He had extraordinary respect for the
    military, and signed up to serve so that he could help soldiers cope
    with the stress of combat and return to civilian life. He leaves behind
    a wife and son.

    Private Francheska Velez, daughter of a father from Colombia and a
    Puerto Rican mother, had recently served in Korea and in Iraq, and was
    pursuing a career in the Army. When she was killed she was pregnant
    with her first child, and was excited about becoming a mother.

    Lieutenant Colonel Juanita Warman was the daughter and granddaughter of
    Army veterans. She was a single mom who put herself through college and
    graduate school, and served as a nurse practitioner while raising her
    two daughters. She also left behind a loving husband.

    Private First Class Kham Xiong came to America from Thailand as a small
    child. He was a husband and father who followed his brother into the
    military because his family had a strong history of service. He was
    preparing for his first deployment to Afghanistan.

  These men and women came from all parts of the country. Some had long 
careers in the military. Some had signed up to serve in the shadow of 9/11. 
Some had known intense combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, and some cared for 
those did. Their lives speak to the strength, the dignity, the decency of 
those who serve, and that's how they will be remembered.

For that same spirit is embodied in the community here at Fort Hood, and in 
the many wounded who are still recovering. As was already mentioned, in 
those terrible minutes during the attack, soldiers made makeshift 
tourniquets out of their clothes. They braved gunfire to reach the wounded, 
and ferried them back to safety in the backs of cars and a pickup truck.

One young soldier, Amber Bahr, was so intent on helping others, she did not 
realize for some time that she, herself, had been shot in the back. Two 
police officers -- Mark Todd and Kim Munley -- saved countless lives by 
risking their own. One medic -- Francisco de la Serna -- treated both 
Officer Munley and the gunman who shot her.

It may be hard to comprehend the twisted logic that led to this tragedy. 
But this much we do know: No faith justifies these murderous and craven 
acts. No just and loving God looks upon them with favor. For what he has 
done, we know that the killer will be met with justice -- in this world, 
and the next.

These are trying times for our country. In Afghanistan and Pakistan, the 
same extremists who killed nearly 3,000 Americans continue to endanger 
America, our allies, and innocent Afghans and Pakistanis. In Iraq, we're 
working to bring a war to a successful end, as there are still those who 
would deny the Iraqi people the future that Americans and Iraqis have 
sacrificed so much for.

As we face these challenges, the stories of those at Fort Hood reaffirm the 
core values that we are fighting for, and the strength that we must draw 
upon. Theirs are the tales of American men and women answering an 
extraordinary call -- the call to serve their comrades, their communities, 
and their country. In an age of self -- selfishness, they embody 
responsibility. In an era of division, they call upon us to come together. 
In a time of cynicism, they remind us of who we are as Americans.

We are a nation that endures because of the courage of those who defend it. 
We saw that valor in those who braved bullets here at Fort Hood, just as 
surely as we see it in those who signed up knowing they would serve in 
harm’s way.

We are a nation of laws whose commitment to justice is so enduring that we 
would treat a gunman and give him due process, just as surely as we will 
see that he pays for his crimes.

We're a nation that guarantees the freedom to worship as one chooses. And 
instead of claiming God for our side, we remember Lincoln’s words
 , and always pray to be on 
the side of God.

We're a nation that is dedicated to the proposition that all men and women 
are created equal.  We live that truth within our military, and see it in 
the varied backgrounds of those we lay to rest today. We defend that truth 
at home and abroad, and we know that Americans will always be found on the 
side of liberty and equality. That's who we are as a people.

Tomorrow is Veterans Day. It's a chance to pause, and to pay tribute -- for 
students to learn the struggles that preceded them; for families to honor 
the service of parents and grandparents; for citizens to reflect upon the 
sacrifices that have been made in pursuit of a more perfect union.

For history is filled with heroes. You may remember the stories of a 
grandfather who marched across Europe; an uncle who fought in Vietnam; a 
sister who served in the Gulf. But as we honor the many generations who 
have served, all of us -- every single American -- must acknowledge that 
this generation has more than proved itself the equal of those who've come 
before.1 We need not look to the past for greatness, because it is before 
our very eyes.

This generation of soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen 
have volunteered in the time of certain danger. They are part of the finest 
fighting force that the world has ever known. They have served tour after 
tour of duty in distant, different, and difficult places. They have stood 
watch in blinding deserts and on snowy mountains. They have extended the 
opportunity of self-government to peoples that have suffered tyranny and 
war. They are men and women -- white, black, and brown -- of all faiths and 
all stations -- all Americans, serving together to protect our people, 
while giving others half a world away the chance to lead a better life.

In today’s wars, there's not always a simple ceremony that signals our 
troops’ success -- no surrender papers to be signed, or capital to be 
claimed. But the measure of the impact of these young men and women is no 
less great. In a world of threats that no know borders, their legacy will 
be marked in the safety of our cities and towns, and the security and 
opportunity that's extended abroad. It will serve as testimony to the 
character of those who served, and the example that all of you in uniform 
set for America and for the world.

Here at Fort Hood, we pay tribute to 13 men and women who were not able to 
escape the horror of war, even in the comfort of home. Later today at Fort 
Lewis, one community will gather to remember so many in one Stryker Brigade 
who have fallen in Afghanistan.

Long after they are laid to rest -- when the fighting has finished, and our 
nation has endured; when today’s servicemen and women are veterans and 
their children have grown -- it will be said that this generation believed 
under the most trying of tests; believed in perseverance -- not just when 
it was easy, but when it was hard; that they paid the price and bore the 
burden to secure this nation, and stood up for the values that live in the 
hearts of all free peoples.

So we say goodbye to those who now belong to eternity.

We press ahead in pursuit of the peace that guided their service.

May God bless the memory of those that we have lost.

And may God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


1 An allusion and a direct response to the "greatest generation" arguments 
popularized (and delivered here)  by Tom 
Brokaw. 

Also in this database: Lt. Gen. Robert Cone -- Address at the Fort Hood 
Memorial Service 

Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Images #1 and #15 Source: U.S. Department of Defense Online
 (Cherie Cullen photographer)

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, & Image #1 & #15 = Public domain. Images of 
Military Personnel = Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.