 

 

Barack Obama

9/11 Pentagon Memorial Speech

delivered 11 September 2009, Arlington, Virginia

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen and members of the Armed Forces, fellow 
Americans, family and friends of those that we lost this day: Michelle and 
I are deeply humbled to be with you.

Eight Septembers have come and gone. Nearly 3,000 days have passed -- 
almost one for each of those taken from us. But no turning of the seasons 
can diminish the pain and the loss of that day. No passage of time and no 
dark skies can ever dull the meaning of this moment.

So on this solemn day, at this sacred hour, once more we pause. Once more 
we pray -- as a nation and as a people; in city streets where our two 
towers were turned to ashes and dust; in a quiet field where a plane fell 
from the sky; and here, where a single stone of this building is still 
blackened by the fires.

We remember with reverence the lives we lost. We read their names. We press 
their photos to our hearts. And on this day that marks their death, we 
recall the beauty and meaning of their lives; men and women and children of 
every color and every creed, from across our nation and from more than 100 
others. They were innocent. Harming no one, they went about their daily 
lives. Gone in a horrible instant, they now "dwell in the House of the Lord 
forever."

We honor all those who gave their lives so that others might live, and all 
the survivors who battled burns and wounds and helped each other rebuild 
their lives; men and women who gave life to that most simple of rules: I am 
my brother's keeper; I am my sister's keeper.

We pay tribute to the service of a new generation -- young Americans raised 
in a time of peace and plenty who saw their nation in its hour of need and 
said, "I choose to serve"; "I will do my part." And once more we grieve. 
For you and your families, no words can ease the ache of your heart. No 
deeds can fill the empty places in your homes. But on this day and all that 
follow, you may find solace in the memory of those you loved, and know that 
you have the unending support of the American people.

Scripture teaches us a hard truth. The mountains may fall and the earth may 
give way; the flesh and the heart may fail. But after all our suffering, 
God and grace will "restore you and make you strong, firm and steadfast." 
So it is -- so it has been for these families. So it must be for our 
nation.

Let us renew our resolve against those who perpetrated this barbaric act 
and who plot against us still. In defense of our nation we will never 
waver; in pursuit of al Qaeda and its extremist allies, we will never 
falter.

Let us renew our commitment to all those who serve in our defense -- our 
courageous men and women in uniform and their families and all those who 
protect us here at home. Mindful that the work of protecting America is 
never finished, we will do everything in our power to keep America safe.

Let us renew the true spirit of that day. Not the human capacity for evil, 
but the human capacity for good. Not the desire to destroy, but the impulse 
to save, and to serve, and to build. On this first National Day of Service 
and Remembrance, we can summon once more that ordinary goodness of America 
-- to serve our communities, to strengthen our country, and to better our 
world.

Most of all, on a day when others sought to sap our confidence, let us 
renew our common purpose. Let us remember how we came together as one 
nation, as one people, as Americans, united not only in our grief, but in 
our resolve to stand with one another, to stand up for the country we all 
love.

This may be the greatest lesson of this day, the strongest rebuke to those 
who attacked us, the highest tribute to those taken from us -- that such 
sense of purpose need not be a fleeting moment. It can be a lasting virtue.

For through their own lives -- and through you, the loved ones that they 
left behind -- the men and women who lost their lives eight years ago today 
leave a legacy that still shines brightly in the darkness, and that calls 
on all of us to be strong and firm and united. That is our calling today 
and in all the Septembers still to come.

May God bless you and comfort you. And may God bless the United States of 
America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Images (Screenshots) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Images = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.