 

 

Barack Obama

Speech at the UN Copenhagen Climate Change Conference

delivered 18 December 2009, Copenhagen, Denmark

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Good morning. It is an honor for me to join this distinguished group of 
leaders from nations around the world. We come here in Copenhagen because 
climate change poses a grave and growing danger to our people. All of you 
would not be here unless you -- like me -- were convinced that this danger 
is real. This is not fiction, it is science. Unchecked, climate change will 
pose unacceptable risks to our security, our economies, and our planet. 
This much we know.

The question, then, before us is no longer the nature of the challenge. The 
question is our capacity to meet it. For while the reality of climate 
change is not in doubt, I have to be honest, as the world watches us today, 
I think our ability to take collective action is in doubt right now, and it 
hangs in the balance.

I believe we can act boldly, and decisively, in the face of a common 
threat. That's why I come here today -- not to talk, but to act.

Now, as the world's largest economy and as the world's second largest 
emitter, America bears our responsibility to address climate change, and we 
intend to meet that responsibility. That's why we've renewed our leadership 
within international climate change negotiations. That's why we've worked 
with other nations to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. That's why we've 
taken bold action at home -- by making historic investments in renewable 
energy; by putting our people to work increasing efficiency in our homes 
and buildings; and by pursuing comprehensive legislation to transform to a 
clean energy economy.

These mitigation actions are ambitious, and we are taking them not simply 
to meet global responsibilities. We are convinced, as some of you may be 
convinced, that changing the way we produce and use energy is essential to 
America's economic future -- that it will create millions of new jobs, 
power new industries, keep us competitive, and spark new innovation. We're 
convinced, for our own self-interest, that the way we use energy, changing 
it to a more efficient fashion, is essential to our national security, 
because it helps to reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and helps us deal 
with some of the dangers posed by climate change.

So I want this plenary session to understand, America is going to continue 
on this course of action to mitigate our emissions and to move towards a 
clean energy economy, no matter what happens here in Copenhagen. We think 
it is good for us, as well as good for the world. But we also believe that 
we will all be stronger, all be safer, all be more secure if we act 
together. That's why it is in our mutual interest to achieve a global 
accord in which we agree to certain steps, and to hold each other 
accountable to certain commitments.

After months of talk, after two weeks of negotiations, after innumerable 
side meetings, bilateral meetings, endless hours of discussion among 
negotiators, I believe that the pieces of that accord should now be clear.

First, all major economies must put forward decisive national actions that 
will reduce their emissions, and begin to turn the corner on climate 
change. I'm pleased that many of us have already done so. Almost all the 
major economies have put forward legitimate targets, significant targets, 
ambitious targets. And I'm confident that America will fulfill the 
commitments that we have made: cutting our emissions in the range of 17 
percent by 2020, and by more than 80 percent by 2050 in line with final 
legislation.

Second, we must have a mechanism to review whether we are keeping our 
commitments, and exchange this information in a transparent manner. These 
measures need not be intrusive, or infringe upon sovereignty. They must, 
however, ensure that an accord is credible, and that we're living up to our 
obligations. Without such accountability, any agreement would be empty 
words on a page.

I don't know how you have an international agreement where we all are not 
sharing information and ensuring that we are meeting our commitments. That 
doesn't make sense. It would be a hollow victory.

Number three, we must have financing that helps developing countries adapt, 
particularly the least developed and most vulnerable countries to climate 
change. America will be a part of fast-start funding that will ramp up to 
$10 billion by 2012. And yesterday, Secretary Hillary Clinton, my Secretary 
of State, made it clear that we will engage in a global effort to mobilize 
$100 billion in financing by 2020, if -- and only if -- it is part of a 
broader accord that I have just described.

Mitigation. Transparency. Financing. It's a clear formula -- one that 
embraces the principle of common but differentiated responses and 
respective capabilities. And it adds up to a significant accord -- one that 
takes us farther than we have ever gone before as an international 
community.

I just want to say to this plenary session that we are running short on 
time. And at this point, the question is whether we will move forward 
together or split apart, whether we prefer posturing to action. I'm sure 
that many consider this an imperfect framework that I just described. No 
country will get everything that it wants. There are those developing 
countries that want aid with no strings attached, and no obligations with 
respect to transparency. They think that the most advanced nations should 
pay a higher price. I understand that. There are those advanced nations who 
think that developing countries either cannot absorb this assistance, or 
that will not be held accountable effectively, and that the world's 
fastest-growing emitters should bear a greater share of the burden.

We know the fault lines because we've been imprisoned by them for years. 
These international discussions have essentially taken place now for almost 
two decades, and we have very little to show for it other than an increased 
acceleration of the climate change phenomenon. The time for talk is over. 
This is the bottom line: We can embrace this accord, take a substantial 
step forward, continue to refine it and build upon its foundation. We can 
do that, and everyone who is in this room will be part of a historic 
endeavor -- one that makes life better for our children and our 
grandchildren.

Or we can choose delay, falling back into the same divisions that have 
stood in the way of action for years. And we will be back having the same 
stale arguments month after month, year after year, perhaps decade after 
decade, all while the danger of climate change grows until it is 
irreversible.

Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to waste. America has made our 
choice. We have charted our course. We have made our commitments. We will 
do what we say. Now I believe it's the time for the nations and the people 
of the world to come together behind a common purpose.

We are ready to get this done today -- but there has to be movement on all 
sides to recognize that it is better for us to act than to talk; it’s 
better for us to choose action over inaction; the future over the past -- 
and with courage and faith, I believe that we can meet our responsibility 
to our people, and the future of our planet.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.