 

 

Barack Obama

Prayer Breakfast Speech

delivered 4 February 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

Thank you. Thank you very much. Please be seated.

Thank you so much. Heads of state, Cabinet members, my outstanding Vice 
President, members of Congress, religious leaders, distinguished guests, 
Admiral Mullen -- it's good to see all of you. Let me begin by 
acknowledging the co-chairs of this breakfast, Senators Isakson and 
Klobuchar, who embody the sense of fellowship at the heart of this 
gathering. They're two of my favorite senators. Let me also acknowledge the 
director of my faith-based office, Joshua DuBois, who is here. Where's 
Joshua? He's out there somewhere. He's doing great work.

I want to commend Secretary Hillary Clinton on her outstanding remarks, and 
her outstanding leadership at the State Department. She's doing good every 
day. I'm especially pleased to see my dear friend, Prime Minister Zapatero, 
and I want him to relay America's greetings to the people of Spain. And 
Johnny, you are right, I'm deeply blessed, and I thank God every day for 
being married to Michelle Obama.

I'm privileged to join you once again, as my predecessors have for over 
half a century. Like them, I come here to speak about the ways my faith 
informs who I am -- as a President, and as a person. But I'm also here for 
the same reason that all of you are, for we all share a recognition -- one 
as old as time -- that a willingness to believe, an openness to grace, a 
commitment to prayer can bring sustenance to our lives.

There is, of course, a need for prayer even in times of joy and peace and 
prosperity. Perhaps especially in such times prayer is needed -- to guard 
against pride and to guard against complacency. But rightly or wrongly, 
most of us are inclined to seek out the divine not in the moment when the 
Lord makes His face shine upon us, but in moments when God's grace can seem 
farthest away.

Last month, God's grace, God's mercy, seemed far away from our neighbors in 
Haiti. And yet I believe that grace was not absent in the midst of tragedy. 
It was heard in prayers and hymns that broke the silence of an earthquake's 
wake. It was witnessed among parishioners of churches that stood no more, a 
roadside congregation, holding bibles in their laps. It was felt in the 
presence of relief workers and medics; translators; servicemen and women, 
bringing water and food and aid to the injured.

One such translator was an American of Haitian descent, representative of 
the extraordinary work that our men and women in uniform do all around the 
world -- Navy Corpsman Christian [sic] Brossard. And lying on a gurney 
aboard the USNS Comfort, a woman asked Christopher:  "Where do you come 
from?  What country?  After my operation," she said, "I will pray for that 
country." And in Creole, Corpsman Brossard responded, "Etazini." The United 
States of America.

God's grace, and the compassion and decency of the American people is 
expressed through the men and women like Corpsman Brossard. It's expressed 
through the efforts of our Armed Forces, through the efforts of our entire 
government, through similar efforts from Spain and other countries around 
the world. It's also, as Secretary Clinton said, expressed through multiple 
faith-based efforts. By evangelicals at World Relief. By the American 
Jewish World Service. By Hindu temples, and mainline Protestants, Catholic 
Relief Services, African American churches, the United Sikhs. By Americans 
of every faith, and no faith, uniting around a common purpose, a higher 
purpose.

It's inspiring. This is what we do, as Americans, in times of trouble. We 
unite, recognizing that such crises call on all of us to act, recognizing 
that there but for the grace of God go I, recognizing that life's most 
sacred responsibility -- one affirmed, as Hillary said, by all of the 
world's great religions -- is to sacrifice something of ourselves for a 
person in need.

Sadly, though, that spirit is too often absent when tackling the long-term, 
but no less profound issues facing our country and the world. Too often, 
that spirit is missing without the spectacular tragedy, the 9/11 or the 
Katrina, the earthquake or the tsunami, that can shake us out of 
complacency. We become numb to the day-to-day crises, the slow-moving 
tragedies of children without food and men without shelter and families 
without health care. We become absorbed with our abstract arguments, our 
ideological disputes, our contests for power. And in this Tower of Babel, 
we lose the sound of God's voice.

Now, for those of us here in Washington, let's acknowledge that democracy 
has always been messy. Let's not be overly nostalgic. Divisions are hardly 
new in this country. Arguments about the proper role of government, the 
relationship between liberty and equality, our obligations to our fellow 
citizens -- these things have been with us since our founding. And I'm 
profoundly mindful that a loyal opposition, a vigorous back and forth, a 
skepticism of power, all of that is what makes our democracy work.

And we've seen actually some improvement in some circumstances. We haven't 
seen any canings on the floor of the Senate any time recently. So we 
shouldn't over-romanticize the past.  But there is a sense that something 
is different now; that something is broken; that those of us in Washington 
are not serving the people as well as we should. At times, it seems like 
we're unable to listen to one another; to have at once a serious and civil 
debate. And this erosion of civility in the public square sows division and 
distrust among our citizens. It poisons the well of public opinion. It 
leaves each side little room to negotiate with the other. It makes politics 
an all-or-nothing sport, where one side is either always right or always 
wrong when, in reality, neither side has a monopoly on truth. And then we 
lose sight of the children without food and the men without shelter and the 
families without health care.

Empowered by faith, consistently, prayerfully, we need to find our way back 
to civility. That begins with stepping out of our comfort zones in an 
effort to bridge divisions. We see that in many conservative pastors who 
are helping lead the way to fix our broken immigration system.  It's not 
what would be expected from them, and yet they recognize, in those 
immigrant families, the face of God. We see that in the evangelical leaders 
who are rallying their congregations to protect our planet. We see it in 
the increasing recognition among progressives that government can't solve 
all of our problems, and that talking about values like responsible 
fatherhood and healthy marriage are integral to any anti-poverty agenda. 
Stretching out of our dogmas, our prescribed roles along the political 
spectrum, that can help us regain a sense of civility.

Civility also requires relearning how to disagree without being 
disagreeable; understanding, as President [Kennedy] said, that "civility is 
not a sign of weakness." Now, I am the first to confess I am not always 
right. Michelle will testify to that. But surely you can question my 
policies without questioning my faith, or, for that matter, my citizenship.

Challenging each other's ideas can renew our democracy. But when we 
challenge each other's motives, it becomes harder to see what we hold in 
common. We forget that we share at some deep level the same dreams -- even 
when we don't share the same plans on how to fulfill them.

We may disagree about the best way to reform our health care system, but 
surely we can agree that no one ought to go broke when they get sick in the 
richest nation on Earth. We can take different approaches to ending 
inequality, but surely we can agree on the need to lift our children out of 
ignorance; to lift our neighbors from poverty. We may disagree about gay 
marriage, but surely we can agree that it is unconscionable to target gays 
and lesbians for who they are -- whether it's here in the United States or, 
as Hillary mentioned, more extremely in odious laws that are being proposed 
most recently in Uganda.

Surely we can agree to find common ground when possible, parting ways when 
necessary. But in doing so, let us be guided by our faith, and by prayer.  
For while prayer can buck us up when we are down, keep us calm in a storm; 
while prayer can stiffen our spines to surmount an obstacle -- and I assure 
you I'm praying a lot these days -- prayer can also do something else.  It 
can touch our hearts with humility. It can fill us with a spirit of 
brotherhood. It can remind us that each of us are children of a awesome and 
loving God.

Through faith, but not through faith alone, we can unite people to serve 
the common good. And that's why my Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood 
Partnerships has been working so hard since I announced it here last year. 
We've slashed red tape and built effective partnerships on a range of uses, 
from promoting fatherhood here at home to spearheading interfaith 
cooperation abroad. And through that office we've turned the faith-based 
initiative around to find common ground among people of all beliefs, 
allowing them to make an impact in a way that's civil and respectful of 
difference and focused on what matters most.

It is this spirit of civility that we are called to take up when we leave 
here today. That's what I'm praying for.  I know in difficult times like 
these -- when people are frustrated, when pundits start shouting and 
politicians start calling each other names -- it can seem like a return to 
civility is not possible, like the very idea is a relic of some bygone era. 
The word itself seems quaint -- civility.

But let us remember those who came before; those who believed in the 
brotherhood of man even when such a faith was tested. Remember Dr. Martin 
Luther King. Not long after an explosion ripped through his front porch, 
his wife and infant daughter inside, he rose to that pulpit in Montgomery 
and said, "Love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into a 
friend."

In the eyes of those who denied his humanity, he saw the face of God.

Remember Abraham Lincoln. On the eve of the Civil War, with states seceding 
and forces gathering, with a nation divided half slave and half free, he 
rose to deliver his first Inaugural and said, "We are not enemies, but 
friends…Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of 
affection."

Even in the eyes of confederate soldiers, he saw the face of God.

Remember William Wilberforce, whose Christian faith led him to seek 
slavery's abolition in Britain; he was vilified, derided, attacked; but he 
called for "lessening prejudices [and] conciliating good-will, and thereby 
making way for the less obstructed progress of truth."

In the eyes of those who sought to silence a nation's conscience, he saw 
the face of God.

Yes, there are crimes of conscience that call us to action. Yes, there are 
causes that move our hearts and offenses that stir our souls. But progress 
doesn't come when we demonize opponents.  It's not born in righteous spite. 
Progress comes when we open our hearts, when we extend our hands, when we 
recognize our common humanity. Progress comes when we look into the eyes of 
another and see the face of God. That we might do so -- that we will do so 
all the time, not just some of the time -- is my fervent prayer for our 
nation and the world.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.