 

 

Barack Obama

Call for Congress to Vote on Health Care Reform Legislation

delivered 3 March 2010, White House, Washington, D.C.

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Thank you so much, all of you, for joining us today.  And I want to thank 
Julie, Barbara, Roland, Stephen, Renee, and Christopher, standing behind me 
-- physicians, physicians assistants, and nurses who understand how 
important it is for us to make much needed changes in our health care 
system.

I want to thank all of you who are here today.  I want to specially 
recognize two people who have been working tirelessly on that -- on this 
effort, my Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius -- as 
well as our quarterback for health reform out of the White House, Nancy-Ann 
DeParle.

We began our push to reform health insurance last March, in this room, with 
doctors and nurses who know the system best.  And so it’s fitting to be 
joined by all of you as we bring this journey to a close.    

Last Thursday, I spent seven hours at a summit where Democrats and 
Republicans engaged in a public and very substantive discussion about 
health care.  This meeting capped off a debate that began with a similar 
summit nearly one year ago.  And since then, every idea has been put on the 
table.  Every argument has been made.  Everything there is to say about 
health care has been said -- and just about everybody has said it.  So now 
is the time to make a decision about how to finally reform health care so 
that it works, not just for the insurance companies, but for America’s 
families and America’s businesses.

Now, where both sides say they agree is that the status quo is not working 
for the American people.  Health insurance is becoming more expensive by 
the day.  Families can’t afford it.  Businesses can’t afford it.  The 
federal government can’t afford it.  Smaller businesses and individuals who 
don’t get coverage at work are squeezed especially hard.  And insurance 
companies freely ration health care based on who’s sick and who’s healthy; 
who can pay and who can’t.  That's the status quo.  That's the system we 
have right now.

Democrats and Republicans agree that this is a serious problem for America. 
 And we agree that if we do nothing -– if we throw up our hands and walk 
away -– it’s a problem that will only grow worse.  Nobody disputes that.  
More Americans will lose their family's health insurance if they switch 
jobs or lose their job.  More small businesses will be forced to choose 
between health care and hiring.  More insurance companies will deny people 
coverage who have preexisting conditions, or they'll drop people's coverage 
when they get sick and need it most.  And the rising cost of Medicare and 
Medicaid will sink our government deeper and deeper and deeper into debt.  
On all of this we agree. So the question is, what do we do about it? 

On one end of the spectrum, there are some who've suggested scrapping our 
system of private insurance and replacing it with a government-run health 
care system.  And though many other countries have such a system, in 
America it would be neither practical nor realistic.

On the other end of the spectrum, there are those, and this includes most 
Republicans in Congress, who believe the answer is to loosen regulations on 
the insurance industry -- whether it's state consumer protections or 
minimum standards for the kind of insurance they can sell.  The argument 
is, is that that will somehow lower costs.  I disagree with that approach.  
I'm concerned that this would only give the insurance industry even freer 
rein to raise premiums and deny care.

So I don't believe we should give government bureaucrats or insurance 
company bureaucrats more control over health care in America.  I believe 
it's time to give the American people more control over their health care 
and their health insurance.  I don't believe we can afford to leave 
life-and-death decisions about health care to the discretion of insurance 
company executives alone.  I believe that doctors and nurses and physician 
assistants like the ones in this room should be free to decide what's best 
for their patients.

Now, the proposal I put forward gives Americans more control over their 
health insurance and their health care by holding insurance companies more 
accountable.  It builds on the current system where most Americans get 
their health insurance from their employer.  If you like your plan, you can 
keep your plan.  If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor.  I can 
tell you as the father of two young girls, I would not want any plan that 
interferes with the relationship between a family and their doctor. 

Essentially, my proposal would change three things about the current health 
care system.  First, it would end the worst practices of insurance 
companies.  No longer would they be able to deny your coverage because of a 
preexisting condition.  No longer would they be able to drop your coverage 
because you got sick.  No longer would they be able to force you to pay 
unlimited amounts of money out of your own pocket.  No longer would they be 
able to arbitrarily and massively raise premiums like Anthem Blue Cross 
recently tried to do in California -- up to 39 percent increases in one 
year in the individual market.  Those practices would end. 

Second, my proposal would give uninsured individuals and small business 
owners the same kind of choice of private health insurance that members of 
Congress get for themselves -- because if it’s good enough for members of 
Congress, it’s good enough for the people who pay their salaries.

The reason federal employees get a good deal on health insurance is that we 
all participate in an insurance market where insurance companies give 
better coverage and better rates, because they get more customers.  It's an 
idea that many Republicans have embraced in the past, before politics 
intruded. 

And my proposal says that if you still can’t afford the insurance in this 
new marketplace, even though it's going to provide better deals for people 
than they can get right now in the individual marketplace, then we'll offer 
you tax credits to do so -- tax credits that add up to the largest 
middle-class tax cut for health care in history.  After all, the wealthiest 
among us can already buy the best insurance there is, and the least well 
off are able to get coverage through Medicaid.  So it's the middle class 
that gets squeezed, and that’s who we have to help.

Now, it is absolutely true that all of this will cost some money -- about 
$100 billion per year.  But most of this comes from the nearly $2 trillion 
a year that America already spends on health care -- but a lot of it is not 
spent wisely.  A lot of that money is being wasted or spent badly.  So 
within this plan, we’re going to make sure the dollars we spend go towards 
making insurance more affordable and more secure.  We’re going to eliminate 
wasteful taxpayer subsidies that currently go to insurance and 
pharmaceutical companies; set a new fee on insurance companies that stand 
to gain a lot of money and a lot of profits as millions of Americans are 
able to buy insurance; and we're going to make sure that the wealthiest 
Americans pay their fair share on Medicare. 

The bottom line is our proposal is paid for.  And all the new money 
generated in this plan goes back to small businesses and middle-class 
families who can't afford health insurance.  It would also lower 
prescription drug prices for seniors.  And it would help train new doctors 
and nurses and physician assistants to provide care for American families.

Finally, my proposal would bring down the cost of health care for millions 
-- families, businesses, and the federal government.  We have now 
incorporated most of the serious ideas from across the political spectrum 
about how to contain the rising cost of health care --- ideas that go after 
the waste and abuse in our system, especially in programs like Medicare.  
But we do this while protecting Medicare benefits, and extending the 
financial stability of the program by nearly a decade.    

Our cost-cutting measures mirror most of the proposals in the current 
Senate bill, which reduces most people's premiums and brings down our 
deficit by up to a trillion dollars over the next two decades -- brings 
down our deficit.  Those aren't my numbers; those are the savings 
determined by the Congressional Budget Office, which is the Washington 
acronym for the nonpartisan, independent referee of Congress in terms of 
how much stuff costs.

So that's our proposal.  This is where we've ended up.  It's an approach 
that has been debated and changed and I believe improved over the last 
year.  It incorporates the best ideas from Democrats and Republicans --- 
including some of the ideas that Republicans offered during the health care 
summit, like funding state grants on medical malpractice reform, and 
curbing waste and fraud and abuse in the health care system.  My proposal 
also gets rid of many of the provisions that had no place in health care 
reform -- provisions that were more about winning individual votes in 
Congress than improving health care for all Americans. 

Now, despite all that we agree on and all the Republican ideas we've 
incorporated, many -- probably most -- Republicans in Congress just have a 
fundamental disagreement over whether we should have more or less oversight 
of insurance companies.  And if they truly believe that less regulation 
would lead to higher quality, more affordable health insurance, then they 
should vote against the proposal I've put forward.

Now, some also believe that we should, instead of doing what I'm proposing, 
pursue a piecemeal approach to health insurance reform, where we tinker 
around the edges of this challenge for the next few years.  Even those who 
acknowledge the problem of the uninsured say we just can't afford to help 
them right now --- which is why the Republican proposal only covers 3 
million uninsured Americans while we cover over 31 million. 

The problem with that approach is that unless everyone has access to 
affordable coverage, you can't prevent insurance companies from denying 
coverage based on preexisting conditions; you can't limit the amount 
families are forced to pay out of their own pockets.  The insurance reforms 
rest on everybody having access to coverage.  And you also don't do 
anything about the fact that taxpayers currently end up subsidizing the 
uninsured when they're forced to go to the emergency room for care, to the 
tune of about a thousand bucks per family.  You can't get those savings if 
those people are still going to the emergency room.  So the fact is, health 
reform only works if you take care of all of these problems at once. 

Now, both during and after last week's summit, Republicans in Congress 
insisted that the only acceptable course on health care reform is to start 
over.  But given these honest and substantial differences between the 
parties about the need to regulate the insurance industry and the need to 
help millions of middle-class families get insurance, I don't see how 
another year of negotiations would help. 

Moreover, the insurance companies aren't starting over.  They're continuing 
to raise premiums and deny coverage as we speak.  For us to start over now 
could simply lead to delay that could last for another decade, or even 
more.  The American people, and the U.S. economy, just can't wait that 
long.  So, no matter which approach you favor, I believe the United States 
Congress owes the American people a final vote on health care reform.

We have debated this issue thoroughly, not just for the past year but for 
decades.  Reform has already passed the House with a majority.  It has 
already passed the Senate with a supermajority of 60 votes.  And now it 
deserves the same kind of up or down vote that was cast on welfare reform, 
that was cast on the Children's Health Insurance Program, that was used for 
COBRA health coverage for the unemployed, and, by the way, for both Bush 
tax cuts --- all of which had to pass Congress with nothing more than a 
simple majority.   

I, therefore, ask leaders in both houses of Congress to finish their work 
and schedule a vote in the next few weeks.  From now until then, I will do 
everything in my power to make the case for reform.  And I urge every 
American who wants this reform to make their voice heard as well --- every 
family, every business, every patient, every doctor, every nurse, every 
physician’s assistant.  Make your voice heard. 

This has been a long and wrenching debate.  It has stoked great passions 
among the American people and their representatives.  And that's because 
health care is a difficult issue.  It is a complicated issue.  If it was 
easy, it would have been solved long ago.  As all of you know from 
experience, health care can literally be an issue of life or death.  And as 
a result, it easily lends itself to demagoguery and political gamesmanship, 
and misrepresentation and misunderstanding. 

But that’s not an excuse for those of us who were sent here to lead.  
That's not an excuse for us to walk away.  We can’t just give up because 
the politics are hard.  I know there’s been a fascination, bordering on 
obsession, in this media town about what passing health insurance reform 
would mean for the next election and the one after that.  How will this 
play?  What will happen with the polls?  I will leave it to others to sift 
through the politics, because that’s not what this is about.  That’s not 
why we’re here. 

This is about what reform would mean for the mother with breast cancer 
whose insurance company will finally have to pay for her chemotherapy.  
This is about what reform would mean for the small business owner who will 
no longer have to choose between hiring more workers or offering coverage 
to the employees she has.  This is about what reform would mean for 
middle-class families who will be able to afford health insurance for the 
very first time in their lives and get a regular checkup once in a while, 
and have some security about their children if they get sick. 

This is about what reform would mean for all those men and women I’ve met 
over the last few years who’ve been brave enough to share their stories.  
When we started our push for reform last year, I talked to a young mother 
in Wisconsin named Laura Klitzka.  She has two young children.  She thought 
she had beaten her breast cancer but then later discovered it had spread to 
her bones.  She and her husband were working and had insurance, but their 
medical bills still landed them in debt.  And now she spends time worrying 
about that debt when all she wants to do is spend time with her children 
and focus on getting well. 

This should not happen in the United States of America.  And it doesn’t 
have to. 

In the end, that's what this debate is about.  It's about what kind of 
country we want to be.  It's about the millions of lives that would be 
touched and, in some cases, saved by making private health insurance more 
secure and more affordable. 

So at stake right now is not just our ability to solve this problem, but 
our ability to solve any problem.  The American people want to know if it's 
still possible for Washington to look out for their interests and their 
future.  They are waiting for us to act.  They are waiting for us to lead.  
And as long as I hold this office, I intend to provide that leadership.  I 
do not know how this plays politically, but I know it's right.  And so I 
ask Congress to finish its work, and I look forward to signing this reform 
into law. 

Thank you very much, everybody. Let's get it done.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Pete Souza) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.