 

 

Barack Obama

Address on Energy Security at Andrews Air Force Base

delivered 31 March 2010, Camp Springs, Maryland

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

I -- I've got a few introductions that I want to make very quickly before I 
start my remarks.  First of all, I think that by the end of his tenure 
we're going to know that Ken Salazar is one of the finest Secretaries of 
Interior we've ever had.  So please give him a big round of applause.

Other members of what we call our green team are here:  Steven Chu, our 
Secretary of Energy; Martha Johnson, the Administrator of the GSA; Nancy 
Sutley, the CEQ Chair.  We've got Carol Browner, who’s the White House 
Energy and Climate Change Director.  Please give them a big round of 
applause.  They put in a lot of work.

Governor Martin O’Malley is here, governor of Maryland.  Ray Mabus, 
Secretary of the Navy, is here. Admiral Gary Roughead, Chief of Naval 
Operations, is here, and we appreciate his outstanding service.  Thank you, 
Gar.

I want to thank Steven Shepro, the base commander here at Andrews, and the 
leadership that's present from the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the 
Coast Guard.

Ken and I were colleagues in the Senate, and I appointed him because I knew 
that he would be a faithful and pragmatic steward of our natural resources. 
 And as Secretary, he is changing the way that the Interior Department does 
business so that we’re responsibly developing traditional sources of energy 
and renewable sources of energy, from the wind on the high plains to the 
suns in the desert to the waves off our coasts.  And so I'm very grateful 
to the work that he’s done in culminating in one of the announcements that 
we’re making today.

It’s also good to see so many members of our Armed Forces here today.  
Andrews is the home of Air Force One, and I appreciate everything that you 
do for me and my family.  I should point out that you’ve got a 100-percent 
on-time departure record. You don’t charge for luggage -- so it’s a pretty 
good deal.  And I want to thank you not only for the support that you 
provide me, but also for the service that you perform to keep our country 
safe each and every day.  So I'm very grateful to all of you.

We’re here to talk about America’s energy security, an issue that’s been a 
priority for my administration since the day I took office.  Already, we’ve 
made the largest investment in clean energy in our nation’s history.  It’s 
an investment that’s expected to create or save more than 700,000 jobs 
across America -- jobs manufacturing advanced batteries for more efficient 
vehicles; upgrading the power grid so that it’s smarter and it’s stronger; 
doubling our nation’s capacity to generate renewable electricity from 
sources like the wind and the sun.

And just a few months after taking office, I also gathered the leaders of 
the world’s largest automakers, the heads of labor unions, environmental 
advocates, and public officials from California and across the country to 
reach a historic agreement to raise fuel economy standards in cars and 
trucks.  And tomorrow, after decades in which we have done little to 
increase auto efficiency, those new standards will be finalized, which will 
reduce our dependence on oil while helping folks spend a little less at the 
pump.

So my administration is upholding its end of the deal, and we expect all 
parties to do the same.  And I’d also point out this rule that we’re going 
to be announcing about increased mileage standards will save 1.8 billion -- 
billion barrels of oil overall -- 1.8 billion barrels of oil.  And that’s 
like taking 58 million cars off the road for an entire year.

Today, we’re also going to go one step further.  In order to save energy 
and taxpayer dollars, my administration -- led by Secretary Chu at Energy, 
as well as Administrator Johnson at GSA -- is doubling the number of hybrid 
vehicles in the federal fleet, even as we seek to reduce the number of cars 
and trucks used by our government overall.  So we’re going to lead by 
example and practice what we preach:  cutting waste, saving energy, and 
reducing our reliance on foreign oil.

But we have to do more.  We need to make continued investments in clean 
coal technologies and advanced biofuels.  A few weeks ago, I announced loan 
guarantees to break ground on America’s first new nuclear facility in three 
decades, a project that will create thousands of jobs.  And in the short 
term, as we transition to cleaner energy sources, we’ve still got to make 
some tough decisions about opening new offshore areas for oil and gas 
development in ways that protect communities and protect coastlines.

This is not a decision that I’ve made lightly.  It’s one that Ken and I -- 
as well as Carol Browner, my energy advisor, and others in my 
administration -- looked at closely for more than a year.  But the bottom 
line is this:  Given our energy needs, in order to sustain economic growth 
and produce jobs, and keep our businesses competitive, we are going to need 
to harness traditional sources of fuel even as we ramp up production of new 
sources of renewable, homegrown energy.

So today we’re announcing the expansion of offshore oil and gas 
exploration, but in ways that balance the need to harness domestic energy 
resources and the need to protect America’s natural resources.  Under the 
leadership of Secretary Salazar, we’ll employ new technologies that reduce 
the impact of oil exploration.  We’ll protect areas that are vital to 
tourism, the environment, and our national security.  And we’ll be guided 
not by political ideology, but by scientific evidence.

That's why my administration will consider potential areas for development 
in the mid and south Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, while studying and 
protecting sensitive areas in the Arctic.  That’s why we’ll continue to 
support development of leased areas off the North Slope of Alaska, while 
protecting Alaska’s Bristol Bay.

There will be those who strongly disagree with this decision, including 
those who say we should not open any new areas to drilling.  But what I 
want to emphasize is that this announcement is part of a broader strategy 
that will move us from an economy that runs on fossil fuels and foreign oil 
to one that relies more on homegrown fuels and clean energy.  And the only 
way this transition will succeed is if it strengthens our economy in the 
short term and the long run.  To fail to recognize this reality would be a 
mistake.

On the other side, there are going to be some who argue that we don’t go 
nearly far enough; who suggest we should open all our waters to energy 
exploration without any restriction or regard for the broader environmental 
and economic impact.  And to those folks I’ve got to say this:  We have 
less than 2 percent of the world’s oil reserves; we consume more than 20 
percent of the world’s oil.  And what that means is that drilling alone 
can’t come close to meeting our long-term energy needs.  And for the sake 
of our planet and our energy independence, we need to begin the transition 
to cleaner fuels now.

So the answer is not drilling everywhere all the time.  But the answer is 
not, also, for us to ignore the fact that we are going to need vital energy 
sources to maintain our economic growth and our security.  Ultimately, we 
need to move beyond the tired debates of the left and the right, between 
business leaders and environmentalists, between those who would claim 
drilling is a cure all and those who would claim it has no place.  Because 
this issue is just too important to allow our progress to languish while we 
fight the same old battles over and over again.

For decades we’ve talked about how our dependence on foreign oil threatens 
our economy -– yet our will to act rises and falls with the price of a 
barrel of oil.  When gas gets expensive at the pump, suddenly everybody is 
an energy expert.  And when it goes back down, everybody is back to their 
old habits.

For decades we’ve talked about the threat to future generations posed by 
our current system of energy –- even as we can see the mounting evidence of 
climate change from the Arctic Circle to the Gulf Coast.  And this is 
particularly relevant to all of you who are serving in uniform:  For 
decades, we’ve talked about the risks to our security created by dependence 
on foreign oil, but that dependence has actually grown year after year 
after year after year.

And while our politics has remained entrenched along these worn divides, 
the ground has shifted beneath our feet.  Around the world, countries are 
seeking an edge in the global marketplace by investing in new ways of 
producing and saving energy.  From China to Germany, these nations 
recognize that the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the 
country that leads the global economy.  And meanwhile, here at home, as 
politicians in Washington debate endlessly about whether to act, our own 
military has determined that we can no longer afford not to.

Some of the press may be wondering why we are announcing offshore drilling 
in a hangar at Andrews Air Force Base.  Well, if there’s any doubt about 
the leadership that our military is showing, you just need to look at this 
F-18 fighter and the light-armored vehicle behind me.  The Army and Marine 
Corps have been testing this vehicle on a mixture of biofuels.  And this 
Navy fighter jet -- appropriately called the Green Hornet -- will be flown 
for the first time in just a few days, on Earth Day.  If tests go as 
planned, it will be the first plane ever to fly faster than the speed of 
sound on a fuel mix that is half biomass.  The Air Force is also testing 
jet engines using biofuels and had the first successful biofuel-powered 
test flight just last week.  I don’t want to drum up any kind of rivalry 
here, but --

Now, the Pentagon isn’t seeking these alternative fuels just to protect our 
environment; they’re pursuing these homegrown energy sources to protect our 
national security.  Our military leaders recognize the security imperative 
of increasing the use of alternative fuels, decreasing energy use, reducing 
our reliance on imported oil, making ourselves more energy-efficient. 
That’s why the Navy, led by Secretary Mabus, who’s here today, has set a 
goal of using 50-percent alternative fuels in all planes, vehicles, and 
ships in the next 10 years.  That’s why the Defense Department has invested 
2.7 billion dollars this year alone to improve energy efficiency.

So moving towards clean energy is about our security.  It’s also about our 
economy.  And it’s about the future of our planet. And what I hope is, is 
the policies that we’ve laid out -- from hybrid fleets to offshore 
drilling, from nuclear energy to wind energy -- underscores the seriousness 
with which my administration takes this challenge.  It’s a challenge that 
requires us to break out of the old ways of thinking, to think and act 
anew.  And it requires each of us, regardless of whether we’re in the 
private sector or the public sector, whether we’re in the military or in 
the civilian side of government, to think about how could we be doing 
things better, how could we be doing things smarter -- so that we are no 
longer tethered to the whims of what happens somewhere in the Middle East 
or with other major oil-producing nations.

So I’m open to proposals from my Democratic friends and my Republican 
friends.  I think that we can break out of the broken politics of the past 
when it comes to our energy policy.  I know that we can come together to 
pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation that’s going to foster 
new energy -- new industries, create millions of new jobs, protect our 
planet, and help us become more energy independent.  That’s what we can do. 
 That is what we must do.  And I’m confident that is what we will do.

So thank you very much.  And thanks, again, to all of you who are serving 
in our Armed Services.  You are making an enormous contribution, and this 
is just one example of the leadership that you’re showing.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.