 

 

Barack Obama

Justice Stevens Retirement and West Virginia Mining Tragedy

delivered 9 April 2010

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody.  I want to say a few words about the tragedy 
that took place this week in West Virginia, but before I do, I’d first like 
to comment on the news that Justice John Paul Stevens will retire from the 
Supreme Court at the end of its current term.

When President Ford was faced with a Supreme Court vacancy shortly after 
the nation was still recovering from the Watergate scandal, he wanted a 
nominee who was brilliant, non-ideological, pragmatic, and committed above 
all to justice, integrity, and the rule of law.  He found that nominee in 
John Paul Stevens.

Justice Stevens has courageously served his country from the moment he 
enlisted the day before Pearl Harbor to his long and distinguished tenure 
on the Supreme Court.  During that tenure, he has stood as an impartial 
guardian of the law.  He has worn the judicial robe with honor and 
humility.  He has applied the Constitution and the laws of the land with 
fidelity and restraint.  He will soon turn 90 this month, but he leaves his 
position at the top of his game.  His leadership will be sorely missed, and 
I just had an opportunity to speak with him and told him on behalf of a 
grateful nation, that I thanked him for his service.

As Justice Stevens expressed to me in the letter announcing his retirement, 
it is in the best interests of the Supreme Court to have a successor 
appointed and confirmed before the next term begins.  And so I will move 
quickly to name a nominee, as I did with Justice Sotomayor.

Once again, I view the process of selecting a Supreme Court nominee as 
among my most serious responsibilities as President.  And while we cannot 
replace Justice Stevens’ experience or wisdom, I will seek someone in the 
coming weeks with similar qualities -- an independent mind, a record of 
excellence and integrity, a fierce dedication to the rule of law, and a 
keen understanding of how the law affects the daily lives of the American 
people.  It will also be someone who, like Justice Stevens, knows that in a 
democracy, powerful interests must not be allowed to drown out the voices 
of ordinary citizens.  Much like they did with Justice Sotomayor, I hope 
the Senate will move quickly in the coming weeks to debate and then confirm 
my nominee so that the new Justice is seated in time for the fall term.

Now, let me say a few words about what has happened in West Virginia.

This has been an unimaginably difficult week for the people who live near 
Montcoal.  Thirty-one workers were inside the Upper Big Branch mine when an 
explosion ripped through its walls on Monday afternoon.  Two were saved.  
Twenty-five were lost.  And for the four who remain missing, we are praying 
for a miracle.

I want to offer my deepest condolences to the friends and the families of 
the fathers and the husbands and brothers, nephews and sons who were killed 
in this accident.  I’m also in awe of the courage and selflessness shown by 
the rescue teams who’ve risked their lives over and over and over this week 
for the chance to save another.  They’ve worked around the clock, with 
little sleep, for the past few days, and this nation owes them a debt of 
gratitude.

Now, mining has a long and proud history in West Virginia.  For many 
families and communities, it’s not just a way to make a living; it’s a way 
of life.  And the jobs they do in these mines help bring heat and 
electricity to millions of Americans.

It’s a profession that’s not without risks and danger, and the workers and 
their families know that.  But their government and their employers know 
that they owe it to these families to do everything possible to ensure 
their safety when they go to work each day.

When I was in the Senate, I supported the efforts of Senators Byrd and 
Rockefeller to try and improve mine safety, but it’s clear that more needs 
to be done.  And that’s why I’ve asked my Secretary of Labor as well as the 
head of the Mine Safety and Health Administration to give me a preliminary 
report next week on what went wrong and why it went wrong so badly, so that 
we can take the steps necessary to prevent such accidents in the future.

Because mining is a tradition that’s often passed down through generations, 
it’s not uncommon to see an entire family choose this line of work.  And 
sadly, when a tragedy like this occurs, it’s also not uncommon to lose 
almost an entire family all at once.

I spoke to some surviving members of one such family on Wednesday.  This 
week, Tim Davis, and two of his nephews, Josh, age 25, and Cory, age 20, 
were killed in the explosion in the Upper Big Branch mine.

Rescuers have reported that Tim and his two nephews were all found 
together.  Two other members of their families that worked in the mine were 
able to escape unharmed.

Before he left for the mine on Monday, Josh wrote a letter for his 
girlfriend and young daughter.  And in it, he said, “If anything happens to 
me, I’ll be looking down from heaven at you all.  I love you.  Take care of 
my baby.  Tell her that daddy loves her, she’s beautiful, she’s funny.  
Just take care of my baby girl.”

Reflecting on that letter, and the losses she endured in just one week, 
Josh’s mother Pam simply said, “It is just West Virginia.  When something 
bad happens, we come together.”  When something bad happens, we come 
together.

Through tragedy and heartache, that’s the spirit that has sustained this 
community, and this country, for over 200 years.  And as we pray for the 
souls of those we’ve lost, and the safe return of those who are missing, we 
are also sustained by the words of the Psalm that are particularly poignant 
right now.  Those words read:  “You, O Lord, keep my lamp burning; my God 
turns my darkness into light.”  Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.