 

 

Barack Obama

On Resignation of General McChrystal from Afghanistan Command

delivered 23 June 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon. Today I accepted General Stanley McChrystal's resignation 
as commander of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan. 
I did so with considerable regret, but also with certainty that it is the 
right thing for our mission in Afghanistan, for our military, and for our 
country.

I'm also pleased to nominate General David Petraeus to take command in 
Afghanistan which will allows us to maintain the momentum and leadership 
that we need to succeed. 

I don't make this decision based on any difference in policy with General 
McChrystal, as we are in full agreement about our strategy. Nor do I make 
this decision out of any sense of personal insult. Stan McChrystal has 
always shown great courtesy and carried out my orders faithfully. I've got 
great admiration for him and for his long record of service in uniform.

Over the last nine years, with America fighting wars in Iraq and 
Afghanistan, he has earned a reputation as one of our nation's finest 
soldiers. That reputation is founded upon his extraordinary dedication, his 
deep intelligence and his love of country. I've relied on his service, 
particularly in helping to design and lead our new strategy in Afghanistan. 
So all Americans should be grateful for General McChrystal's remarkable 
career in uniform.

But war is bigger than any one man or woman, whether a private, a general 
or a president. And as difficult as it is to lose General McChrystal, I 
believe that it is the right decision for our national security.

The conduct represented in the recently published article does not meet the 
standard that should be set by a commanding general. It undermines the 
civilian control of the military that is at the core of our democratic 
system. And it erodes the trust that's necessary for our team to work 
together to achieve our objectives in Afghanistan.

My multiple responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief led me to this decision. 
First, I have a responsibility to the extraordinary men and women who are 
fighting this war and to the democratic institutions that I've been elected 
to lead. I've got no greater honor than serving as commander-in-chief of 
our men and women in uniform.

And it is my duty to ensure that no diversion complicates the vital mission 
that they are carrying out. That includes adherence to a strict code of 
conduct. The strength and greatness of our military is rooted in the fact 
that this code applies equally to newly enlisted privates and to the 
general officer who commands them. That allows us to come together as one. 
That's part of the reason why America has the finest fighting force in the 
history of the world.

It is also true that our democracy depends upon institutions that are 
stronger than individuals. That includes strict adherence to the military 
chain of command and respect for civilian control over that chain of 
command. And that's why as commander-in-chief I believe this decision is 
necessary to hold ourselves accountable to standards that are at the core 
of our democracy.

Second, I have a responsibility to do whatever is necessary to succeed in 
Afghanistan and in our broader effort to disrupt, dismantle and defeat Al 
Qaida. I believe that this mission demands unity of effort across our 
alliance and across my national security team. And I don't think that we 
can sustain that unity of effort and achieve our objectives in Afghanistan 
without making this change. That, too, has guided my decision.

I've just told my national security team that now is the time for all of us 
to come together. Doing so is not an option but an obligation. I welcome 
debate among my team, but I won't tolerate division. All of us have 
personal interests. All of us have opinions. Our politics often fuels 
conflict. But we have to renew our sense of common purpose and meet our 
responsibilities to one another, and to our troops who are in harm's way 
and to our country.

We need to remember what this is all about. Our nation is at war. We face a 
very tough fight in Afghanistan. But Americans don't flinch in the face of 
difficult truths or difficult tasks. We persist and we persevere. We will 
not tolerate a safe haven for terrorists who want to destroy Afghan society 
from within and launch attacks against innocent men, women and children in 
our country and around the world.

So make no mistake, we have a clear goal. We are going to break the 
Taliban's momentum. We are going to build Afghan capacity. We are going to 
relentlessly apply pressure on Al Qaida and its leadership, strengthening 
the ability of both Afghanistan and Pakistan to do the same. That's the 
strategy that we agreed to last fall. That is the policy that we are 
carrying out in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

In that effort, we are honored to be joined by allies and partners who have 
stood by us and paid the ultimate price through the loss of their young 
people at war. They are with us because the interests and values that we 
share, and because this mission is fundamental to the ability of free 
people to live in peace and security in the 21st century.

And General Petraeus and I were able to spend some time this morning 
discussing the way forward. I'm extraordinarily grateful that he has agreed 
to serve in this new capacity. It should be clear to everybody he does so 
at great personal sacrifice to himself and to his family. And he is setting 
an extraordinary example of service and patriotism by assuming this 
difficult post.

Let me say to the American people, this is a change in personnel, but it is 
not a change in policy. General Petraeus fully participated in our review 
last fall. And he both supported and helped design the strategy that we 
have in place.

In his current post at Central Command, he was worked closely with our 
forces in Afghanistan; he has worked closely with Congress; he has worked 
closely with the Afghan and Pakistan governments, and with all our partners 
in the region. He has my full confidence. And I am urging the Senate to 
confirm him for this new assignment as swiftly as possible.

Let me conclude by saying that it was a difficult decision to come to the 
conclusion that I've made today. Indeed, it saddens me to lose the service 
of a soldier who I've come to respect and admire. But the reasons that led 
me to this decision are the same principles that have supported the 
strength of our military and our nation since the founding. So, once again, 
I thank General McChrystal for his enormous contributions to the security 
of this nation and to the success of our mission in Afghanistan.

I look forward to working with General Petraeus and my entire national 
security team to succeed in our mission. And I reaffirm that America stands 
as one in our support for the men and women who defend it.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.