 

 

Barack Obama

Memorial Service Address for Upper Branch Coal Miners

delivered 25 April 2010, Beckley, West Virginia

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

To all the families who loved so deeply the miners we’ve lost; to all who 
called them friends, worked alongside them in the mines, or knew them as 
neighbors, in Montcoal and Naoma, or Whitesville, in the Coal River Valley 
and across West Virginia -– let me begin by saying that we have been 
mourning with you throughout these difficult days. Our hearts have been 
aching with you. We keep our thoughts with the survivors who are recovering 
and resting at the hospital and at the homes. We're thankful for the rescue 
teams. But our hearts ache alongside you.

We’re here to memorialize 29 Americans: Carl Acord. Jason Atkins. 
Christopher Bell. Gregory Steven Brock. Kenneth Allan Chapman. Robert 
Clark. Charles Timothy Davis. Cory Davis. Michael Lee Elswick. William I. 
Griffith. Steven Harrah. Edward Dean Jones. Richard K. Lane. William 
Roosevelt Lynch. Nicholas Darrell McCroskey. Joe Marcum. Ronald Lee Maynor. 
James E. Mooney. Adam Keith Morgan. Rex L. Mullins. Joshua S. Napper. 
Howard D. Payne. Dillard Earl Persinger. Joel R. Price. Deward Scott. Gary 
Quarles. Grover Dale Skeens. Benny Willingham. And Ricky Workman.

Nothing I, or the Vice President, or the Governor, none of the speakers 
here today, nothing we say can fill the hole they leave in your hearts, or 
the absence that they leave in your lives. If any comfort can be found, it 
can, perhaps, be found by seeking the face of God -- who quiets our 
troubled minds, a God who mends our broken hearts, a God who eases our 
mourning souls.

Even as we mourn 29 lives lost, we also remember 29 lives lived. Up at 4:30 
a.m., 5:00 in the morning at the latest, they began their day, as they 
worked, in darkness. In coveralls and hard-toe boots, a hardhat over their 
heads, they would sit quietly for their hour-long journey, five miles into 
a mountain, the only light the lamp on their caps, or the glow from the 
mantrip they rode in.

Day after day, they would burrow into the coal, the fruits of their labor, 
what so often we take for granted: the electricity that lights up a 
convention center; that lights up our church or our home, our school, our 
office; the energy that powers our country; the energy that powers the 
world.

And most days they’d emerge from the dark mine, squinting at the light. 
Most days, they’d emerge, sweaty and dirty and dusted from coal. Most days, 
they’d come home. But not that day.

These men -- these husbands, fathers, grandfathers, brothers sons, uncles, 
nephews -- they did not take on their job unaware of the perils. Some of 
them had already been injured; some of them had seen a friend get hurt. So 
they understood there were risks. And their families did, too. They knew 
their kids would say a prayer at night before they left. They knew their 
wives would wait for a call when their shift ended saying everything was 
okay. They knew their parents felt a pang of fear every time a breaking 
news alert came on, or the radio cut in.

But they left for the mines anyway -- some, having waited all their lives 
to be miners; having longed to follow in the footsteps of their fathers and 
their grandfathers. And yet, none of them did it for themselves alone.

All that hard work, all that hardship, all the time spent underground, it 
was all for the families. It was all for you. For a car in the driveway, a 
roof overhead. For a chance to give their kids opportunities that they 
would never know, and enjoy retirement with their spouses. It was all in 
the hopes of something better. And so these miners lived -- as they died -- 
in pursuit of the American Dream.

There, in the mines, for their families, they became a family themselves -- 
sharing birthdays, relaxing together, watching Mountaineers football or 
basketball together, spending days off together, hunting or fishing. They 
may not have always loved what they did, said a sister, but they loved 
doing it together. They loved doing it as a family. They loved doing it as 
a community.

That’s a spirit that’s reflected in a song that almost every American 
knows. But it’s a song most people, I think, would be surprised was 
actually written by a coal miner’s son about this town, Beckley, about the 
people of West Virginia. It’s the song, Lean on Me -- an anthem of 
friendship, but also an anthem of community, of coming together.

That community was revealed for all to see in the minutes, and hours, and 
days after the tragedy. Rescuers, risking their own safety, scouring narrow 
tunnels saturated with methane and carbon monoxide, hoping against hope 
they might find a survivor. Friends keeping porch lights on in a nightly 
vigil; hanging up homemade signs that read, "Pray for our miners, and their 
families." Neighbors consoling each other, and supporting each other and 
leaning on one another.

I’ve seen it, the strength of that community. In the days that followed the 
disaster, emails and letters poured into the White House. Postmarked from 
different places across the country, they often began the same way: "I am 
proud to be from a family of miners." "I am the son of a coal miner." "I am 
proud to be a coal miner’s daughter." They were always proud, and they 
asked me to keep our miners in my thoughts, in my prayers. Never forget, 
they say, miners keep America’s lights on. And then in these letters, they 
make a simple plea: Don’t let this happen again. Don't let this happen 
again.

How can we fail them? How can a nation that relies on its miners not do 
everything in its power to protect them? How can we let anyone in this 
country put their lives at risk by simply showing up to work; by simply 
pursuing the American Dream?

We cannot bring back the 29 men we lost. They are with the Lord now. Our 
task, here on Earth, is to save lives from being lost in another such 
tragedy; to do what must do, individually and collectively, to assure safe 
conditions underground -- to treat our miners like they treat each other -- 
like a family. Because we are all family and we are all Americans. And we 
have to lean on one another, and look out for one another, and love one 
another, and pray for one another.

There's a psalm that comes to mind today -- a psalm that comes to mind, a 
psalm we often turn to in times of heartache:

    Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will
    fear no evil, for You are with me; your rod and your staff, they
    comfort me.

God bless our miners.

God bless their families.

God bless West Virginia.

And God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.