 

 

Barack Obama

Press Conference on Security Following Christmas Terrorist Attempt

delivered 5 January 2010, White House, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

I just concluded a meeting with members of my national security team, 
including those from our intelligence, homeland security and law 
enforcement agencies involved in the security reviews that I ordered after 
the failed attack on Christmas Day.
    
I called these leaders to the White House because we face a challenge of 
the utmost urgency.  As we saw on Christmas, al Qaeda and its extremist 
allies will stop at nothing in their efforts to kill Americans.  And we are 
determined not only to thwart those plans, but to disrupt, dismantle and 
defeat their networks once and for all. 
    
Indeed, over the past year, we've taken the fight to al Qaeda and its 
allies wherever they plot and train, be it in Afghanistan and Pakistan, in 
Yemen and Somalia, or in other countries around the world. 

Here at home, our intelligence, homeland security and law enforcement 
agencies have worked together with considerable success:  gathering 
intelligence, stitching it together, and making arrests -- from Denver to 
Texas, from Illinois to New York -- disrupting plots and saving American 
lives.  And these successes have not come without a price, as we saw last 
week in the loss of our courageous CIA officers in Afghanistan.
 
But when a suspected terrorist is able to board a plane with explosives on 
Christmas Day the system has failed in a potentially disastrous way.  And 
it's my responsibility to find out why, and to correct that failure so that 
we can prevent such attacks in the future.

And that's why, shortly after the attempted bombing over Detroit, I ordered 
two reviews.  I directed Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to 
review aviation screening, technology and procedures.  She briefed me on 
her initial findings today, and I'm pleased that this review is drawing on 
the best science and technology, including the expertise of Secretary of 
Energy Steven Chu and his department.
     
I also directed my counterterrorism and homeland security advisor John 
Brennan to lead a thorough review into our terrorist watch-listing system 
so we can fix what went wrong.  As we discussed today, this ongoing review 
continues to reveal more about the human and systemic failures that almost 
cost nearly 300 lives.  We will make a summary of this preliminary report 
public within the next few days, but let me share some of what we know so 
far.

As I described over the weekend, elements of our intelligence community 
knew that Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab had traveled to Yemen and joined up 
with extremists there.  It now turns out that our intelligence community 
knew of other red flags -- that al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula sought to 
strike not only American targets in Yemen, but the United States itself.  
And we had information that this group was working with an individual who 
was known -- who we now know was in fact the individual involved in the 
Christmas attack.

The bottom line is this:  The U.S. government had sufficient information to 
have uncovered this plot and potentially disrupt the Christmas Day attack.  
But our intelligence community failed to connect those dots, which would 
have placed the suspect on the "no fly" list.
In other words, this was not a failure to collect intelligence; it was a 
failure to integrate and understand the intelligence that we already had.  
The information was there.  Agencies and analysts who needed it had access 
to it.  And our professionals were trained to look for it and to bring it 
all together. 

Now, I will accept that intelligence, by its nature, is imperfect, but it 
is increasingly clear that intelligence was not fully analyzed or fully 
leveraged.  That's not acceptable, and I will not tolerate it.  Time and 
again, we've learned that quickly piecing together information and taking 
swift action is critical to staying one step ahead of a nimble adversary.

So we have to do better -- and we will do better.  And we have to do it 
quickly.  American lives are on the line.  So I made it clear today to my 
team:  I want our initial reviews completed this week.  I want specific 
recommendations for corrective actions to fix what went wrong.  I want 
those reforms implemented immediately, so that this doesn't happen again 
and so we can prevent future attacks.  And I know that every member of my 
team that I met with today understands the urgency of getting this right.  
And I appreciate that each of them took responsibility for the shortfalls 
within their own agencies.

Immediately after the attack, I ordered concrete steps to protect the 
American people:  new screening and security for all flights, domestic and 
international; more explosive detection teams at airports; more air 
marshals on flights; and deepening cooperation with international partners.
In recent days, we've taken additional steps to improve security.  
Counterterrorism officials have reviewed and updated our terrorist watch 
list system, including adding more individuals to the "no fly" list.  And 
while our review has found that our watch-listing system is not broken, the 
failure to add Abdulmutallab to the "no fly" list shows that this system 
needs to be strengthened.  

The State Department is now requiring embassies and consulates to include 
current visa information in their warning on individuals with terrorist or 
suspected terrorist connections.  As of yesterday, the Transportation 
Security Administration, or TSA, is requiring enhanced screening for 
passengers flying into the United States from, or flying through, nations 
on our list of state sponsors of terrorism, or other countries of interest. 
 And in the days ahead, I will announce further steps to disrupt attacks, 
including better integration of information and enhanced passenger 
screening for air travel.

Finally, some have suggested that the events on Christmas Day should cause 
us to revisit the decision to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay.  So let 
me be clear.  It was always our intent to transfer detainees to other 
countries only under conditions that provide assurances that our security 
is being protected. 

With respect to Yemen in particular, there's an ongoing security situation 
which we have been confronting for some time, along with our Yemeni 
partner.  Given the unsettled situation, I've spoken to the Attorney 
General and we've agreed that we will not be transferring additional 
detainees back to Yemen at this time.

 But make no mistake:  We will close Guantanamo prison, which has damaged 
our national security interests and become a tremendous recruiting tool for 
al Qaeda.  In fact, that was an explicit rationale for the formation of al 
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.  And, as I've always said, we will do so -- 
we will close the prison in a manner that keeps the American people safe 
and secure. 

Our reviews -- and the steps that we've taken and will continue to take -- 
go to the heart of the kind of intelligence and homeland security we need 
in the 21st century.  Just as al Qaeda and its allies are constantly 
evolving and adapting their efforts to strike us, we have to constantly 
adapt and evolve to defeat them, because as we saw on Christmas, the margin 
for error is slim and the consequences of failure can be catastrophic.

As these violent extremists pursue new havens, we intend to target al Qaeda 
wherever they take root, forging new partnerships to deny them sanctuary, 
as we are doing currently with the government in Yemen.  As our adversaries 
seek new recruits, we'll constantly review and rapidly update our 
intelligence and our institutions.  As they refine our tactics, we'll 
enhance our defenses, including smarter screening and security at airports, 
and investing in the technologies that might have detected the kind of 
explosives used on Christmas.
 
In short, we need our intelligence, homeland security and law enforcement 
systems -- and the people in them -- to be accountable and to work as 
intended:  collecting, sharing, integrating, analyzing, and acting on 
intelligence as quickly and effectively as possible to save innocent lives 
-- not just most of the time, but all the time.  That's what the American 
people deserve.  As President, that's exactly what I will demand. 

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.