 

 

Barack Obama

Religions Tolerance in America: Address at Iftar Dinner

delivered 13 August 2010, Washington, D.C.

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Well, welcome to the White House.  To you, to Muslim Americans across our 
country, and to more than one billion Muslims around the world, I extend my 
best wishes on this holy month.  Ramadan Kareem. 

I want to welcome members of the diplomatic corps; members of my 
administration; and members of Congress, including Rush Holt, John Conyers, 
and Andre Carson, who is one of two Muslim American members of Congress, 
along with Keith Ellison.  So welcome, all of you.

Here at the White House, we have a tradition of hosting iftars that goes 
back several years, just as we host Christmas parties and seders and Diwali 
celebrations.  And these events celebrate the role of faith in the lives of 
the American people. They remind us of the basic truth that we are all 
children of God, and we all draw strength and a sense of purpose from our 
beliefs.

These events are also an affirmation of who we are as Americans.  Our 
Founders understood that the best way to honor the place of faith in the 
lives of our people was to protect their freedom to practice religion.  In 
the Virginia Act of Establishing Religion Freedom, Thomas Jefferson wrote 
that “all men shall be free to profess, and by argument to maintain, their 
opinions in matters of religion.”  The First Amendment of our Constitution 
established the freedom of religion as the law of the land.  And that right 
has been upheld ever since.

Indeed, over the course of our history, religion has flourished within our 
borders precisely because Americans have had the right to worship as they 
choose -- including the right to believe in no religion at all.  And it is 
a testament to the wisdom of our Founders that America remains deeply 
religious -- a nation where the ability of peoples of different faiths to 
coexist peacefully and with mutual respect for one another stands in stark 
contrast to the religious conflict that persists elsewhere around the 
globe.

Now, that's not to say that religion is without controversy. Recently, 
attention has been focused on the construction of mosques in certain 
communities -- particularly New York.  Now, we must all recognize and 
respect the sensitivities surrounding the development of Lower Manhattan.  
The 9/11 attacks were a deeply traumatic event for our country.  And the 
pain and the experience of suffering by those who lost loved ones is just 
unimaginable.  So I understand the emotions that this issue engenders.  And 
Ground Zero is, indeed, hallowed ground.

But let me be clear.  As a citizen, and as President, I believe that 
Muslims have the same right to practice their religion as everyone else in 
this country.  And that includes the right to build a place of worship and 
a community center on private property in Lower Manhattan, in accordance 
with local laws and ordinances.  This is America.  And our commitment to 
religious freedom must be unshakeable.  The principle that people of all 
faiths are welcome in this country and that they will not be treated 
differently by their government is essential to who we are.  The writ of 
the Founders must endure.

We must never forget those who we lost so tragically on 9/11, and we must 
always honor those who led the response to that attack -- from the 
firefighters who charged up smoke-filled staircases, to our troops who are 
serving in Afghanistan today. And let us also remember who we’re fighting 
against, and what we’re fighting for.  Our enemies respect no religious 
freedom.  Al Qaeda’s cause is not Islam -- it’s a gross distortion of 
Islam.  These are not religious leaders -- they’re terrorists who murder 
innocent men and women and children.  In fact, al Qaeda has killed more 
Muslims than people of any other religion -- and that list of victims 
includes innocent Muslims who were killed on 9/11.

So that's who we’re fighting against.  And the reason that we will win this 
fight is not simply the strength of our arms -- it is the strength of our 
values.  The democracy that we uphold. The freedoms that we cherish.  The 
laws that we apply without regard to race, or religion, or wealth, or 
status.  Our capacity to show not merely tolerance, but respect towards 
those who are different from us -- and that way of life, that 
quintessentially American creed, stands in stark contrast to the nihilism 
of those who attacked us on that September morning, and who continue to 
plot against us today.

In my inaugural address I said that our patchwork heritage is a strength, 
not a weakness.  We are a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus 
-- and non-believers.  We are shaped by every language and every culture, 
drawn from every end of this Earth.  And that diversity can bring difficult 
debates.  This is not unique to our time.  Past eras have seen 
controversies about the construction of synagogues or Catholic churches.  
But time and again, the American people have demonstrated that we can work 
through these issues, and stay true to our core values, and emerge stronger 
for it.  So it must be -- and will be -- today.

And tonight, we are reminded that Ramadan is a celebration of a faith known 
for great diversity.  And Ramadan is a reminder that Islam has always been 
a part of America.  The first Muslim ambassador to the United States, from 
Tunisia, was hosted by President Jefferson, who arranged a sunset dinner 
for his guest because it was Ramadan
 -- making it the 
first known iftar  at the White House, 
more than 200 years ago.

Like so many other immigrants, generations of Muslims came to forge their 
future here.  They became farmers and merchants, worked in mills and 
factories.  They helped lay the railroads.  They helped to build America.  
They founded the first Islamic center in New York City in the 1890s.  They 
built America’s first mosque on the prairie of North Dakota.  And perhaps 
the oldest surviving mosque in America -- still in use today -- is in Cedar 
Rapids, Iowa.

Today, our nation is strengthened by millions of Muslim Americans.  They 
excel in every walk of life.  Muslim American communities -- including 
mosques in all 50 states -- also serve their neighbors.  Muslim Americans 
protect our communities as police officers and firefighters and first 
responders.  Muslim American clerics have spoken out against terror and 
extremism, reaffirming that Islam teaches that one must save human life, 
not take it.  And Muslim Americans serve with honor in our military. At 
next week’s iftar at the Pentagon, tribute will be paid to three soldiers 
who gave their lives in Iraq and now rest among the heroes of Arlington 
National Cemetery. 

These Muslim Americans died for the security that we depend on, and the 
freedoms that we cherish.  They are part of an unbroken line of Americans 
that stretches back to our founding; Americans of all faiths who have 
served and sacrificed to extend the promise of America to new generations, 
and to ensure that what is exceptional about America is protected -- our 
commitment to stay true to our core values, and our ability slowly but 
surely to perfect our union.

For in the end, we remain “one nation, under God, indivisible.”  And we can 
only achieve “liberty and justice for all” if we live by that one rule at 
the heart of every great religion, including Islam -- that we do unto 
others as we would have them do unto us.

So thank you all for being here.  I wish you a blessed Ramadan.  And with 
that, let us eat.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.