 

 

Barack Obama

Address to Military Personnel in Pensacola, Florida

delivered 15 June 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Well, hello, Pensacola!  It is great to be here.  I want everybody, first 
of all, to give a big round of applause to Chief Elison Talabong for 
leading us in the pledge and singing our National Anthem -- to Lieutenant 
Commander Randy Ekstrom for the wonderful invocation.

I want to thank your outstanding local leaders for welcoming me here today, 
including Captains Chris Plummer, Mike Price and Brad Martin.  Give them a 
big round of applause.  And your great senior enlisted leaders, including 
Master Chief Mike Dollen, give them a big round of applause.

I want to thank all the spouses and families who are joining us here today. 
 You hold our military families together, so we honor your service as well.

It is great to be here in Pensacola -- America’s oldest naval air station, 
“the cradle of naval aviation.”  We’ve got Navy -- all the students of the 
Naval Air Technical Training Center.  (Applause.)  We’ve got Training Wing 
Six, maybe a few Blue Angels.  We’ve got the United States Marines in the 
house -- maybe a few Air Force and Army, too.

Now, I don’t know how many could be here, because they’re out there on the 
water right now, responding to the spill -- but I want to thank all the 
folks at Coast Guard Station Pensacola for their outstanding work.  And I 
know somebody who is especially proud of them, and that’s the former 
Commandant of the Coast Guard who postponed his retirement to answer his 
country’s call once more and coordinate the federal response effort to the 
spill -- and that’s Admiral Thad Allen.  Please give him a big round of 
applause.

Now, I was just down at the Pensacola Beach Gulf Pier, at the Fish Sandwich 
Snack Bar.  Now, I don’t know if any of you ever checked it out.  It’s a 
nice spot.  We were there with some of Florida’s state and local leaders to 
discuss the situation here.  I want to acknowledge the hard work that’s 
being done by the governor of Florida, Charlie Crist; Florida’s Chief 
Financial Officer, Alex Sink; Senators Bill Nelson, George LeMieux, 
representatives who are here today -- we got Jeff Miller and Corrine Brown 
and Ted Deutch.  Please give them a big round of applause.

We’ve got Escambia County Commissioner Grover Robinson and Pensacola Mayor 
Mike Wiggins.  Thank you very much for your outstanding efforts.

I know all of you join me in thanking these leaders and their communities 
-- because they’re your neighbors -- for the incredible support that they 
give all the men and women and your families here in Pensacola.  So we’re 
grateful to you.

But this is my fourth visit to the Gulf Coast since the start of this 
spill.  Yesterday, I was over in Gulfport, Mississippi; Theodore, Alabama; 
and now Pensacola -- assessing the situation, reviewing the response, 
seeing what needs to be done better and faster, and talking with folks -- 
whether fishermen or small business people and their families -- who are 
seeing their lives turned upside-down by this disaster.

Here in Pensacola, the beautiful beaches are still open.  The sand is white 
and the water is blue.  So folks who are looking for a good vacation, they 
can still come down to Pensacola.  People need to know that Pensacola is 
still open for business.  But that doesn’t mean that people aren’t angry.  
That doesn’t mean that people aren’t scared.  That doesn’t mean that people 
have concerns about the future -- we all have those concerns.  And people 
have every right to be angry.

Those plumes of oil are off the coast.  The fishing waters are closed.  Tar 
balls have been coming ashore.  And everybody is bracing for more.

So I’ll say today what I’ve been saying up and down the Coast over the last 
couple of days and over the last month.  Yes, this is an unprecedented 
environmental disaster -- it’s the worst in our nation’s history.  But 
we’re going to continue to meet it with an unprecedented federal response 
and recovery effort -- the largest in our nation’s history.  This is an 
assault on our shores, and we’re going to fight back with everything we’ve 
got.

And that includes mobilizing the resources of the greatest military in the 
world.  Here at Naval Air Station Pensacola, you’ve been one of the major 
staging areas.  You’ve helped to support the response effort.  And I thank 
you for that, and I know the people of Pensacola thank you for that.  And 
all along the Gulf coast, our men and women in uniform -- active, Guard, 
and Reserve -- from across the country are stepping up and helping out.

They’re soldiers on the beaches putting out sandbags and building barriers 
and cleaning up the oil, and helping people process their claims for 
compensation from BP.  They’re sailors and Marines offering their ships and 
their skimmers and their helicopters and miles of boom.  They’re airmen 
overhead, flying in equipment and spraying dispersant.  And, of course, 
there are Coast Guardsmen and women on the cutters, in the air, working 
around the clock.

And when I say this is the largest response of its kind in American 
history, I mean it.  We’ve got more than 5,000 vessels on site -- skimmers, 
tugs, barges, dozens of aircraft.  More than 27,000 personnel are on the 
scene, fighting this every day, putting out millions of feet of boom and 
cleaning the shores.

All told, we’ve authorized the deployment of 17,500 National Guardsmen to 
respond to this crisis.  So far, only about 1,600 have been activated.  
That leaves a lot of Guardsmen ready to help.  And if our governors call on 
them, I know they’ll be ready, because they’re always ready.

So I want the people of this region to know that my administration is going 
to do whatever it takes, for as long as it takes, to deal with this 
disaster.  That includes the additional actions I announced yesterday to 
make sure that seafood from the Gulf is safe to eat.  It includes steps 
we’ve taken to protect the safety of workers involved in the cleanup.  It 
includes the new command structure I announced this morning to make sure 
states and local communities like Pensacola have the autonomy and the 
resources that they need to go forward.

And that includes something else -- making sure BP pays for the damages 
that it has caused -- (applause) -- because this isn’t just an 
environmental disaster.  For many families and communities, it’s an 
economic disaster.  Here in Pensacola and the Panhandle, tourism is 
everything.  And when the tourists stay home, it ripples out and hits folks 
across these communities -- the charter boats, the hotels, the restaurants, 
the roadside stores, the shops, the suppliers, the dive shops.  And if your 
inland waters are contaminated -- if the bays and bayous are contaminated 
-- it could be devastating, changing the way of life down here for years to 
come.

I’m going to speak to the nation tonight about this.  But let me say to the 
people of Pensacola and the Gulf Coast:  I am with you, my administration 
is with you for the long haul to make sure BP pays for the damage that it 
has done and to make sure that you are getting the help you need to protect 
this beautiful coast and to rehabilitate the damaged areas, to revitalize 
this region, and to make sure that nothing like this happens ever again.  
That is a commitment I am making to the people of Florida and people all 
across this Gulf.

Now, that spirit -- that spirit of resolve and determination and 
resilience, that’s the same spirit we see in all of you, the men and women 
in uniform, the spirit we’ll need to meet other challenges of our time.  
Obviously the news has been dominated lately by the oil spill, but our 
nation is at war and all of you have stepped forward.  You volunteered.  
You took an oath.  You stood tall and you said, “I will serve.”

And here at Pensacola, you’re carrying on the proud tradition of naval 
aviation that spans a century.  Here at the Barrancas National Cemetery, 
our heroes from yesterday’s wars are still inspiring us.  And like 
generations before you, you’re no strangers to sacrifice.  Our prayers are 
with the families and friends of the crews that you lost in that training 
exercise two months ago.  Today, we send out our thoughts and prayers to 
all the folks from Pensacola on the frontlines at this very moment, 
including Iraq and Afghanistan.  They are making us incredibly proud.

And so are you.  As naval aviators and naval flight officers, you’ll soon 
earn your “Wings of Gold.”  Many of you will prove yourselves as 
indispensable air crews -- the mechanics, the engineers, the electricians, 
the maintenance crews -- people’s lives depending on what you do each and 
every day.

I know you’re looking ahead to your first operational tours -- to join the 
fleet and your squadrons.  And within weeks, some of you may find 
yourselves serving on a carrier deck in the Arabian Sea or working a busy 
flight line in Afghanistan.  And as you begin your careers, as you look 
ahead to a life of service, I want you to know -- on behalf of the American 
people -- that your nation thanks you, your nation appreciates you, your 
nation will stand with you every step of the way.

And as your Commander-in-Chief, I want you to know something:  I will not 
hesitate to use force to protect the American people or our vital 
interests.  But I will also never risk your lives unless it’s absolutely 
necessary.  And if it is necessary, we are going to back you up to the hilt 
with the strategy and the clear mission and the equipment and the support 
that you need to get the job done right.  That’s my promise to every one of 
you, every man and woman who wears America’s uniform.

That includes the right strategy in Iraq, where we’re partnering with the 
Iraqi people for their long-term security and prosperity.  And thanks to 
the honor and the heroism of our troops, we are poised to end our combat 
mission in Iraq this summer -- on schedule.

As we end the war in Iraq, we’re pressing forward in Afghanistan.  We’re 
working to break the momentum of the Taliban insurgency and train Afghan 
security forces, strengthen the capacity of the Afghan government and 
protect the Afghan people.

We will disrupt and dismantle and ultimately defeat al Qaeda and its 
terrorist affiliates.  (Applause.)  And we will support the aspirations of 
people around the world as they seek progress and opportunity and 
prosperity, because that’s what we do -- as Americans.

As you meet the missions we ask of you, we’re going to make sure you’re 
trained and equipped to succeed.  That’s why we halted reductions in the 
Navy.  That’s why we increased the size of the Marine Corps.  That’s why 
we’re investing in the capabilities and technologies of tomorrow.  And as 
we come up on the 100th anniversary of naval aviation next year, we’re 
committed to the next generation of aircraft.  We’re going to keep you the 
best-trained, best-led, best-equipped military that the world has ever 
known.

Some of that is about technology.  But the most important thing in our 
military is our people -- it’s all of you.  And as you advance through the 
ranks and start families of your own, we want to be there for your loved 
ones, too.  This is one of the defining missions of the First Lady, 
Michelle Obama.  On Sunday, she visited the Navy-Marine Corps team and 
their families at Camp Pendleton.  And they had a tough week, because five 
outstanding Marines from Pendleton gave their lives last week in 
Afghanistan.  During her visit, Michelle had a message for their families 
and for all military families:  America is going to keep faith with you, 
too.

When a loved one goes to war, that family goes to war.  That’s why we’re 
working to improve family readiness and increase pay and benefits, working 
to give you more time between deployments, increasing support to help 
spouses and families deal with the stresses and the separation of war.

But this can’t be the work of government alone.  As Michelle has been 
saying, 1 percent of Americans may be fighting our wars, but 100 percent of 
Americans need to be supporting our men and women and their families in 
uniform.  You guys shouldn’t be carrying the entire burden.  That’s why 
Michelle is challenging every sector of American society to support our 
military families -- not just now, with our nation at war, but at every 
stage of your lives.

So we’re improving care for our wounded warriors, especially those with 
post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injury.  We’re funding the 
Post-9/11 GI Bill -- to give you and your families the chance to pursue 
your dreams.  We’ve made a historic commitment to our veterans with one of 
the largest percentage increases to the VA budget in the past 30 years.

Those are concrete actions we’ve taken to meet the commitment I have to you 
and that the American people have to you.  Because you’ve always taken care 
of America, America needs to take care of you.  And that’s my main message 
here today.  We’re all in this together.  In our country, there isn’t a 
“military world” and a “civilian world.”  We’re all Americans.  There’s not 
Democrats and Republicans, when you take the long view -- we’re all 
Americans.  We all rise and fall together.  And we all need to do our part 
to get through the challenges we face as a people.

So, yes, we’re emerging from the worst economic crisis since the Great 
Depression.  Too many folks are still out of work here in Florida and 
around the country.  Yes, we’re a nation at war with adversaries who will 
stop at nothing to strike our homeland and would kill innocent people, 
women and children, with no compunction.  Yes, we’re now battling the worst 
economic -- environmental disaster in American history.  Any one of these 
challenges alone would test our country.  Confronting them all at once 
might overwhelm a lesser nation.

But look around you.  Look at the person standing next to you.  You look 
around and you see the strength and resilience that will carry us through.

You look at this installation and the forts that have stood watch over this 
bay and its people for centuries -- through the rise and fall of empires, 
through a terrible Civil War -- and as a nation healed itself, we became a 
beacon to the world.   We’ve endured.

All of these men and women in uniform, all of you represent the same spirit 
of service and sacrifice as those who’ve gone before -- who defeated 
fascism, defeated tyranny, prevailed in a long Cold War over communism.  
And now, in our time, you’ve toppled regimes based on terror and 
dictatorship, and you’ve given new hope to millions of people.  You’ve 
earned your place among the greatest of generations.

And look at the people of this city and this region -- fishermen who’ve 
made their lives on the water, families who’ve lived here for generations, 
hardworking folks who’ve had to endure more than their share -- tough 
economic times and hurricanes and storms that forced so many families and 
communities to start over from scratch.  But they never gave up.  They 
started over, and they rebuilt stronger than before.

As Americans, we don’t quit.  We keep coming.  None of these challenges 
we’re facing are going to be easy.  None of them are going to be quick, but 
make no mistake, the United States of America has gone through tough times 
before and we always come out stronger.  And we will do so again.

And this city and this region will recover.  It will thrive again.  And 
America’s military will prevail in the mission to keep our country safe.  
And our nation will endure from these trials stronger than before.  That is 
the history of the United States of America.  That is the legacy of our 
Armed Forces.  And I promise you that we will not falter.

Past generations have passed on this precious gift to us, and future 
generations are depending on us.  And as I look out on each and every one 
of your faces, I’m absolutely confident that you will meet that challenge.

God bless you and God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.