 

 

Barack Obama

Grande Isle Briefing on the Gulf Oil Spill Disaster

delivered 28 May 2010, Grande Isle, Louisiana

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody.  I know it’s a little warm out here so want to 
get started.  I’ve just had a meeting with these governors, members of 
Congress, local officials, as well as Admiral Thad Allen, the National 
Incident Commander in charge of response efforts to the BP oil spill.  
Admiral Allen gave us an update, the latest information on both the efforts 
to plug the well, as well as giving us an update on arrangements and 
coordination that's being made with respect to mitigating this damage 
that's been done. 

He updated us on these latest efforts to stop the leak, mitigate the damage 
to the great beaches of the Gulf coast, and I had the chance to visit with 
-- Charlotte -- a beach like Port Fourchon that gives you a sense of what 
extraordinary efforts are being made at the local level, but also the 
damage that we're already starting to see as a consequence of this spill.

Now, our mission remains the same as it has since this disaster began, 
since the day I visited Louisiana nearly four weeks ago:  We want to stop 
the leak; we want to contain and clean up the oil; and we want to help the 
people of this region return to their lives and their livelihoods as soon 
as possible. 

And our response treats this event for what it is:  It’s an assault on our 
shores, on our people, on the regional economy, and on communities like 
this one.  This isn’t just a mess that we’ve got to mop up.  People are 
watching their livelihoods wash up on the beach.  Parents are worried about 
the implications for their children’s health.  Every resident of this 
community has watched this nightmare threaten the dreams that they’ve 
worked so hard to build.  And they want it made right, and they want to 
make it right now.

I just had a chance to listen to Mayor David Carmadelle of Grande Isle, our 
host here, telling us heartbreaking stories about fishermen who are trying 
to figure out where the next paycheck is going to come from, how are they 
going to pay a mortgage or a note on their boat.  And he is having to dig 
into his pocket at this point to make sure that some of them are able to 
deal with the economic impact.  So this is something that has to be dealt 
with immediately, not sometime later.  And that’s everybody’s driving focus 
-- everybody who is standing behind me. This is our highest priority and it 
deserves a response that is equal to the task.

That’s why this has already been the largest cleanup effort in U.S. 
history.  On the day this disaster began, even as we launched a search and 
rescue effort for workers on the drilling rig, we were already staging 
equipment in the event of a larger-scale spill.  By the time we discovered 
the third breach, a week after the Deepwater Horizon platform sank, we had 
already stationed more than 70 vessels and hundreds of thousands of feet of 
protective boom on site.

Today, there are more than 20,000 people in the region working around the 
clock to contain and clean up this spill.  We’ve activated about 1,400 
members of the National Guard across four states.  Nearly 1,400 vessels are 
aiding in the containment and cleanup effort.  And we deployed more than 3 
million feet of hard and sorbent boom, including an additional 100,000 just 
yesterday for these parishes in Louisiana that face the greatest threat. 

Now, I’ve made clear to Admiral Allen and I did so again today that he 
should get whatever he needs to deal with this crisis.  Whatever he needs, 
he will get.

Right now, we’re still within the window where we don’t yet know the 
outcome of the highly complex top kill procedure that the federal 
government authorized BP to use to try to stop the leak.  If it is 
successful, it would obviously be welcome news.  If it’s not, a team of 
some of the world’s top scientists, engineers and experts, led by our 
Energy Secretary and Nobel Prize-winning physicist Steven Chu, has for some 
time being -- has for some time been exploring any and all reasonable 
contingency plans.

But our response will continue with its full force regardless of the 
outcome of the top kill approach -- because even if the leak was stopped 
today it wouldn’t change the fact that these waters still contain oil from 
what is now the largest spill in American history.  And more of it will 
come ashore.

To ensure that we’re fully prepared for that, and in accordance with input 
from folks down here, I’ve directed Secretary Napolitano and Admiral Allen 
to triple the manpower in places where oil has hit the shore or is within 
24 hours of impact.  This increase will allow us to further intensify this 
already historic response, contain and remove oil more quickly, and help 
minimize the time that any oil comes into contact with our coastline.  That 
means deploying more boom, cleaning more beaches, performing more 
monitoring of wildlife and impact to this ecosystem.

We’re also going to continue to do whatever it takes to help Americans 
whose livelihoods have been upended by this spill.  Gulf Coast residents 
should know that we’ve gathered all pertinent information regarding 
available assistance and the federal response in one place at 
whitehouse.gov.

We have ordered BP to pay economic injury claims, and we will make sure 
they deliver.  And the parish presidents and governors here in Louisiana 
were already giving us some sense of some of the bureaucratic problems that 
we’re going to have to cut through, but we are going to cut through them.  
And for those who are in economic distress, if you’ve already filed a claim 
and you’re not satisfied with the resolution, then whitehouse.gov will 
point you in the right direction. 

As I said yesterday, the Small Business Administration has stepped in to 
help businesses by approving loans, but also as important, allowing many to 
defer existing loan payments.  A lot of folks are still loaded up with 
loans that they had from Katrina and other natural disasters down here, so 
they may need some additional help.

If you’re a small business owner and you weren’t aware of some of the 
programs that have been put in place or haven’t participated, then, again, 
the White House website will connect you to the resources you need.  And we 
are making sure that all the parish presidents know, and folks like the 
mayor, other local officials are going to be aware of how they can get 
immediate help from us.

What’s more, we’ve stationed doctors and scientists across the five Gulf 
States to look out for people’s health and then to monitor any ill effects 
felt by cleanup workers and local residents.  And we’ve begun setting up a 
system to track these efforts -- excuse me, to track these effects -- and 
ensure folks get the care that they need.  And we’ve told BP that we expect 
them to pay for that, too.

As I’ve said before, BP is the responsible party for this disaster.  What 
that means is they’re legally responsible for stopping the leak and they’re 
financially responsible for the enormous damage that they’ve created.  And 
we’re going to hold them accountable, along with any other party 
responsible for the initial explosion and loss of life on that platform.

But as I said yesterday, and as I repeated in the meeting that we just 
left, I ultimately take responsibility for solving this crisis.  I’m the 
President and the buck stops with me.  So I give the people of this 
community and the entire Gulf my word that we’re going to hold ourselves 
accountable to do whatever it takes for as long as it takes to stop this 
catastrophe, to defend our natural resources, to repair the damage, and to 
keep this region on its feet.  Justice will be done for those whose lives 
have been upended by this disaster, for the families of those whose lives 
have been lost -- that is a solemn pledge that I am making.

I think I can speak for anybody here, and for anybody who has been involved 
in the response and the cleanup effort, and for most Americans, when I say 
that I would gladly do whatever it takes to end this disaster today.  But I 
want to also repeat something that I said to the group as a whole while we 
were meeting.  This is a manmade catastrophe that’s still evolving and we 
face a long-term recovery and restoration effort. 

America has never experienced an event like this before.  And that means 
that as we respond to it, not every judgment we make is going to be right 
the first time out.  Sometimes, there are going to be disagreements between 
experts, or between federal and state and local officials, or among state 
officials, or between states, about what the most effective measures will 
be.

Sometimes, there are going to be risks and unintended consequences 
associated with a particular mitigation strategy that we consider.  In 
other words, there are going to be a lot of judgment calls involved here.  
There are not going to be silver bullets or a lot of perfect answers for 
some of the challenges that we face.

Understandably, the feelings of frustration and anger, the sense that any 
response is inadequate -- we expect that frustration and anger to continue 
until we actually solve this problem.  But in the meantime, we’ve got to 
make sure that everybody is working in concert, that everybody is moving in 
the same direction.  And I want everybody to know that everybody here -- at 
every level -- is working night and day to end this crisis. We’re 
considering every single idea out there, especially from folks who know 
these communities best.

Admiral Allen announced yesterday, for example, that, after a bunch of 
back-and-forth between state and federal experts, he is prepared to 
authorize moving forward with a portion of the idea for a barrier island 
that may stop some of the oil from coming ashore.  We had an extensive 
conversation about this and  -- to see whether additional steps can be 
taken on this barrier island idea. 

And what I told the parish president, what I told the Governor, is that if 
there is an idea that can be shown to work, then we should move forward on 
it, and they deserve quick answers.  But I also reminded everybody that 
we’ve got to make sure that whatever we do is actually going to work, 
particularly because we’re going to have not unlimited resources, at least 
not right now.  For example, there’s a limited amount of boom.  We’re going 
to try to get more boom manufactured.  But that may take some time, and 
that means we’re going to have to make some decisions about how to deploy 
it effectively.

The bottom line is this:  Every decision we make is based on a single 
criterion -– what’s going to best protect and make whole the people and the 
ecosystems of the Gulf.

And I want to thank everybody in this region who’s rolled up their sleeves 
and pitched in to help -– from the National Guard putting their experience 
to the task, to the local officials and every citizen who loves this area 
and calls it home, every American who’s traveled to the region to lend a 
hand.  If any American is looking for ways to volunteer and help, then 
we’ve put links to that information on our website, as well -- that's 
whitehouse.gov. 

And, all these governors -- Bobby Jindal, as well as Charlie Crist and Bob 
Riley, they want -- and I know Haley Barbour is not here but I think he 
agrees with this, as well -- one of the powerful ways that you can help the 
Gulf right now is to visit the communities and the beaches off of the 
coast.  Except for three beaches here in Louisiana, all of the Gulf’s 
beaches at this moment are open, they are safe and they are clean.  And so 
that's always a good way to help, is to come down and provide support to 
the communities along the coasts.

To the people of the Gulf Coast:  I know that you’ve weathered your fair 
share of trials and tragedy.  I know there have been times where you’ve 
wondered if you were being asked to face them alone.  I am here to tell you 
that you’re not alone.  You will not be abandoned.  You will not be left 
behind.  The cameras at some point may leave; the media may get tired of 
the story; but we will not.  We are on your side and we will see this 
through.  We’re going to keep at this every day until the leak has stopped, 
until this coastline is clean, and your communities are made whole again.  
That’s my promise to you.  And that is a promise on behalf of a nation.  It 
is one that we will keep. 

And I will make one last point -- and I said this to every leader who is 
here:  If something is not going right down here, then they need to talk to 
Thad Allen.  And if they’re not getting satisfaction from Thad Allen, then 
they can talk to me.  There’s nobody here who can’t get in touch with me 
directly if there is an idea, a suggestion, or a logjam that needs to be 
dealt with.

So we’re in this together.  And it’s going to be a difficult time, and 
obviously the folks down here are going to be feeling the brunt of it, but 
we’re going to make sure that we’re doing everything we can to get this 
solved as quickly as possible.

And I want to again think everybody here for the extraordinary work that 
they’re putting in.  You shouldn’t underestimate how hard these folks are 
working, day in, day out, on behalf of their constituencies.

So thank you very much.  Thank you, everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.