 

 

Barack Obama

Speech Proposing Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee

delivered 14 January 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you, everybody, for being here.

As we all know, our country has endured the deepest recession we've faced 
in generations. And much of the turmoil was caused by irresponsibility on 
the part of banks and financial institutions. Firms took reckless risks in 
pursuit of short-term profits and soaring bonuses, triggering a financial 
crisis that nearly pulled the economy into a second Great Depression
 .

It was little more than a year ago that we stood on that precipice. Several 
of the world's largest financial institutions had already failed. Credit 
markets froze and banks refused to lend. Trillions of dollars in household 
savings evaporated as stocks, pensions, and home values plummeted. And we 
were losing hundreds of thousands of jobs each month. It was at this time 
that many large financial firms -- those left standing -- teetered on the 
brink of collapse, overwhelmed by the consequences of their irresponsible 
decisions.

Now, even though these firms were largely facing a crisis of their own 
making, their failure could have led to an even greater calamity for the 
country. So the Federal Reserve and other agencies took emergency measures 
to prevent that outcome. And the previous Administration started a program 
-- the Troubled Asset Relief Program
 
, or TARP -- to provide these financial institutions with funds to survive 
the turmoil that they had helped unleash. It was a distasteful but 
necessary thing to do.

Now, we've worked over the last year to manage this program effectively, to 
hold firms accountable, and to recoup as much tax money as possible. Many 
originally feared that most of the 700 billion dollars in TARP money would 
be lost. But because of the management of this program by Secretary 
Geithner and my economic team, we've now recovered the majority of the 
funds provided to banks.

As far as I'm concerned, however, that's not good enough. My commitment is 
to the taxpayer.  My commitment is to recover every single dime the 
American people are owed. And my determination to achieve this goal is only 
heightened when I see reports of massive profits and obscene bonuses at 
some of the very firms who owe their continued existence to the American 
people -- folks who have not been made whole, and who continue to face real 
hardship in this recession.

We want our money back. And we're going to get it.

And that's why I'm proposing a "Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee" to be 
imposed on major financial firms until the American people are fully 
compensated for the extraordinary assistance they provided to Wall Street. 
If these companies are in good enough shape to afford massive bonuses, they 
are surely in good enough shape to afford paying back every penny to 
taxpayers.

Now, our estimate is that the TARP program will end up costing taxpayers 
around 117 billion dollars -- obviously a lot less than the 700 billion 
that people had feared, but still a lot of money. The fee will be in place 
for 10 years, or as long as it takes to raise the full amount necessary to 
cover all taxpayer losses. This will not be a cost borne by community banks 
or small financial firms. Only the largest firms with more than 50 billion 
dollars in assets will be affected. And the size of the fee each bank owes 
will be based on its size and exposure to debt, so that we are recovering 
tax dollars while promoting reform of the banking practices that 
contributed to this crisis.

Now, the fact is these financial institutions are essential to our economy. 
They provide capital and credit to families purchasing homes, students 
attending college, businesses seeking to start up or expand. And that's why 
the rescue program was as necessary as it was unfortunate.  And that is 
why, through this fee and broader reforms that we seek, our goal is not to 
punish Wall Street firms, but rather to prevent the abuse and excess that 
nearly caused the collapse of many of these firms and the financial system 
itself.

We cannot go back to "business as usual." And when we see reports of firms 
once again engaging in risky bets to reap quick rewards, when we see a 
return to compensation practices that seem not to reflect what the country 
has been through, all that looks like business as usual to me. The 
financial industry has even launched a massive lobbying campaign, locking 
arms with the opposition Party, to stand in the way of reforms to prevent 
another crisis. That, too, unfortunately, is business as usual. And we're 
already hearing a hue and cry from Wall Street suggesting that this 
proposed fee is not only unwelcome but unfair -- that by some twisted logic 
it is more appropriate for the American people to bear the costs of the 
bailout, rather than the industry that benefited from it, even though these 
executives are out there giving themselves huge bonuses.

What I'd say to these executives is this: Instead of sending a phalanx
 of lobbyists to fight this proposal, 
or employing an army of lawyers and accountants to help evade the fee, I 
suggest you might want to consider simply meeting your responsibilities. 
And I'd urge you to cover the costs of the rescue not by sticking it to 
your shareholders or your customers or fellow citizens with the bill, but 
by rolling back bonuses for top earners and executives. And more broadly, I 
am continuing to call on these firms to put greater effort into helping 
families stay in their homes, to provide small businesses with needed 
loans, and to embrace -- rather than fight -- serious financial reform.

Ultimately, it is by taking responsibility -- on Wall Street, here in 
Washington, all the way to Main Street -- that we're going to move past 
this period of turmoil. That's how we're going to avoid the cycles of boom 
and bust that have caused so much havoc. That's how we're going to promote 
vibrant markets that reward innovation and entrepreneurship and hard work. 
That's how we're going to create sustained growth without the looming 
threat of another costly crisis. That's not only in the best interests of 
the economy as a whole; it's actually in the interest of these large banks.

So, I'm going to be working closely with Congress on this proposal.

And on behalf of the American people, I look forward to signing it into 
law.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text and Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.