 

 

Barack Obama

Weekly Address: Education for a More Competitive America

delivered 13 March 2010

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Lost in the news of the week was a headline that ought to be a source of 
concern for every American.  It said, “Many Nations Passing U.S. in 
Education.”   Now, debates in Washington tend to be consumed with the 
politics of the moment: who’s up in the daily polls; whose party stands to 
gain in November.  But what matters to you -- what matters to our country 
-- is not what happens in the next election, but what we do to lift up the 
next generation.  And the fact is, there are few issues that speak more 
directly to our long term success as a nation than issues concerning the 
education we provide to our children. 

Our prosperity in the 20th century was fueled by an education system that 
helped grow the middle class and unleash the talents of our people more 
fully and widely than at any time in our history.  We built schools and 
focused on the teaching of math and science.  We helped a generation of 
veterans go to college through the GI Bill.  We led the globe in producing 
college graduates, and in turn we led in producing ground-breaking 
technologies and scientific discoveries that lifted living standards and 
set us apart as the world’s engine of innovation. 

Of course, other nations recognize this, and are looking to gain an edge in 
the global marketplace by investing in better schools, supporting teachers, 
and committing to clear standards that will produce graduates with more 
skills.  Our competitors understand that the nation that out-educates us 
today will out-compete us tomorrow.  Yet, too often we have failed to make 
inroads in reforming and strengthening our public education system -- the 
debate mired in worn arguments hurled across entrenched divides. 

As a result, over the last few decades, we’ve lost ground.  One assessment 
shows American fifteen year olds no longer even near the top in math and 
science when compared to their peers around the world.  As referenced in 
the news report I mentioned, we’ve now fallen behind most wealthy countries 
in our high school graduation rates.  And while we once led the world in 
the proportion of college graduates we produced, today we no longer do. 

Not only does that risk our leadership as a nation, it consigns millions of 
Americans to a lesser future.  For we know that the level of education a 
person attains is increasingly a prerequisite for success and a predictor 
of the income that person will earn throughout his or her life.  Beyond the 
economic statistics is a less tangible but no less painful reality: unless 
we take action -- unless we step up -- there are countless children who 
will never realize their full talent and potential. 

I don’t accept that future for them.  And I don’t accept that future for 
the United States of America.  That’s why we’re engaged in a historic 
effort to redeem and improve  our public  schools: to raise the 
expectations for our students and for ourselves, to recognize and reward 
excellence, to improve performance in troubled schools, and to give our 
kids and our country the best chance to succeed in a changing world.

Under the leadership of an outstanding Education Secretary, Arne Duncan
 , we launched a Race to the Top
 , through which 
states compete for funding by committing to reform and raising standards, 
by rewarding good teaching, by supporting the development of better 
assessments to measure results, and by emphasizing math and science to help 
prepare children for college and careers. 

And on Monday, my administration will send to Congress our blueprint
 for an updated 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act to overhaul No Child Left Behind
 .  What this plan 
recognizes is that while the federal government can play a leading role in 
encouraging the reforms and high standards we need, the impetus for that 
change will come from states, and from local schools and school districts.  
So, yes, we set a high bar -- but we also provide educators the flexibility 
to reach it. 

Under these guidelines, schools that achieve excellence or show real 
progress will be rewarded, and local districts will be encouraged to commit 
to change in schools that are clearly letting their students down.  For the 
majority of schools that fall in between -- schools that do well but could 
do better -- we will encourage continuous improvement to help keep our 
young people on track for a bright future: prepared for the jobs of the 
21st century. And because the most important factor in a child’s success is 
the person standing at the front of the classroom, we will better prepare 
teachers, support teachers, and encourage teachers to stay in the field.  
In short, we’ll treat the people who educate our sons and daughters like 
the professionals they are.

Through this plan we are setting an ambitious goal: All students should 
graduate from high school prepared for college and a career -- no matter 
who you are or where you come from.  Achieving this goal will be difficult. 
It will take time.  And it will require the skills, talents, and dedication 
of many: principals, teachers, parents, students.  But this effort is 
essential for our children and for our country.  And while there will 
always be those cynics who claim it can’t be done, at our best, we know 
that America has always risen to the challenges that we’ve faced.  This 
challenge is no different. 

As a nation, we are engaged in many important endeavors: improving the 
economy, reforming the health care system, encouraging innovation in energy 
and other growth industries of the 21st century.  But our success in these 
efforts -- and our success in the future as a people -- will ultimately 
depend on what happens long before an entrepreneur opens his doors, or a 
nurse walks the rounds, or a scientist steps into her laboratory.  Our 
future is determined each and every day, when our children enter the 
classroom, ready to learn and brimming with promise. 

It’s that promise we must help them fulfill.  Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.