 

 

Barack Obama

Commencement Address at West Point Military Academy

delivered 22 May 2010, Michie Stadium, West Point, New York

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good morning!

It is wonderful to be back at the United States Military Academy -- the 
oldest continuously occupied military post in America -- as we commission 
the newest officers in the United States Army.

Thank you, General Hagenbeck, for your introduction, on a day that holds 
special meaning for you and the Dean, General Finnegan. Both of you first 
came to West Point in the Class of 1971 and went on to inspire soldiers 
under your command. You've led this Academy to a well-deserved recognition: 
best college in America. And today, you're both looking forward to a 
well-deserved retirement from the Army. General Hagenbeck and Judy, General 
Finnegan and Joan, we thank you for 39 years of remarkable service to the 
Army and to America.

To the Commandant, General Rapp, the Academy staff and faculty, most of 
whom are veterans, thank you for your service and for inspiring these 
cadets to become the "leaders of character" they are today. Let me also 
acknowledge the presence of General Shinseki, Secretary McHugh, the members 
of Congress who are with us here today, including two former soldiers this 
Academy knows well, Senator Jack Reed and Congressman Patrick Murphy.

To all the families here -- especially all the moms and dads -- this day is 
a tribute to you as well. The decision to come to West Point was made by 
your sons and daughters, but it was you who instilled in them a spirit of 
service that has led them to this hallowed place in a time of war. So on 
behalf of the American people, thank you for your example and thank you for 
your patriotism.

To the United States Corps of Cadets, and most of all, the Class of 2010 -- 
it is a singular honor to serve as your Commander-in-Chief. As your 
Superintendent indicated, under our constitutional system my power as 
President is wisely limited. But there are some areas where my power is 
absolute. And so, as your Commander-in-Chief, I hereby absolve all cadets 
who are on restriction for minor conduct offenses. I will leave the 
definition of "minor" -- to those who know better.

Class of 2010, today is your day -- a day to celebrate all that you've 
achieved, in the finest tradition of the soldier-scholar, and to look 
forward to the important service that lies ahead.

You have pushed yourself through the agony of Beast Barracks, the weeks of 
training in rain and mud, and, I'm told, more inspections and drills than 
perhaps any class before you. Along the way, I'm sure you faced a few 
moments when you asked yourself: "What am I doing here?" I have those 
moments sometimes.

You've trained for the complexities of today's missions, knowing that 
success will be measured not merely by performance on the battlefield, but 
also by your understanding of the cultures and traditions and languages in 
the place where you serve.

You've reached out across borders, with more international experience than 
any class in Academy history. You've not only attended foreign academies to 
forge new friendships, you've welcomed into your ranks cadets from nearly a 
dozen countries.

You've challenged yourself intellectually in the sciences and the 
humanities, in history and technology. You've achieved a standard of 
academic excellence that is without question, tying the record for the most 
post-graduate scholarships of any class in West Point history.

This includes your number one overall cadet and your valedictorian -- Liz 
Betterbed and Alex Rosenberg. And by the way, this is the first time in 
Academy history where your two top awards have been earned by female 
candidates.

This underscores a fact that I've seen in the faces of our troops from 
Baghdad to Bagram -- in the 21st century, our women in uniform play an 
indispensable role in our national defense. And time and again, they have 
proven themselves to be role models for our daughters and our sons -- as 
students and as soldiers and as leaders in the United States armed forces.

And the faces in this stadium show a simple truth: America's Army 
represents the full breadth of America's experience. You come from every 
corner of our country -- from privilege and from poverty, from cities and 
small towns. You worship all of the great religions that enrich the life of 
our people. You include the vast diversity of race and ethnicity that is 
fundamental to our nation's strength.

There is, however, one thing that sets you apart. Here in these quiet 
hills, you've come together to prepare for the most difficult test of our 
time. You signed up knowing your service would send you into harm's way, 
and you did so long after the first drums of war were sounded. In you we 
see the commitment of our country, and timeless virtues that have served 
our nation well.

We see your sense of duty -- including those who have earned their right 
shoulder patch -- their right shoulder combat patches, like the soldier who 
suffered a grenade wound in Iraq, yet still helped his fellow soldiers to 
evacuate -- your First Captain of the Corps of Cadets, Tyler Gordy.

We see your sense of honor -- in your respect for tradition, knowing that 
you join a Long Grey Line that stretches through the centuries; and in your 
reverence for each other, as when the Corps stands in silence every time a 
former cadet makes the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. Indeed, today we 
honor the 78 graduates of this Academy who have given their lives for our 
freedom and our security in Iraq and Afghanistan.

And we see your love of country -- a devotion to America captured in the 
motto you chose as a class, a motto which will guide your lives of service: 
"Loyal 'Til the End."

Duty. Honor. Love of country. Everything you have learned here, all that 
you've achieved here, has prepared you for today -- when you raise your 
right hand; when you take that oath; when your loved one or mentor pins 
those gold bars on your shoulders; when you become, at long last, 
commissioned officers in the United States Army.

This is the ninth consecutive commencement that has taken place at West 
Point with our nation at war. This time of war began in Afghanistan -- a 
place that may seem as far away from this peaceful bend in the Hudson River 
as anywhere on Earth. The war began only because our own cities and 
civilians were attacked by violent extremists who plotted from a distant 
place, and it continues only because that plotting persists to this day.

For many years, our focus was on Iraq. And year after year, our troops 
faced a set of challenges there that were as daunting as they were complex. 
A lesser Army might have seen its spirit broken. But the American military 
is more resilient than that. Our troops adapted, they persisted, they 
partnered with coalition and Iraqi counterparts, and through their 
competence and creativity and courage, we are poised to end our combat 
mission in Iraq this summer.

Even as we transition to an Iraqi lead and bring our troops home, our 
commitment to the Iraqi people endures. We will continue to advise and 
assist Iraqi security forces, who are already responsible for security in 
most of the country. And a strong American civilian presence will help 
Iraqis forge political and economic progress. This will not be a simple 
task, but this is what success looks like: an Iraq that provides no haven 
to terrorists; a democratic Iraq that is sovereign and stable and 
self-reliant.

And as we end the war in Iraq, though, we are pressing forward in 
Afghanistan. Six months ago, I came to West Point to announce a new 
strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. And I stand here humbled by the 
knowledge that many of you will soon be serving in harm's way. I assure 
you, you will go with the full support of a proud and grateful nation.

We face a tough fight in Afghanistan. Any insurgency that is confronted 
with a direct challenge will turn to new tactics. And from Marja to 
Kandahar, that is what the Taliban has done through assassination and 
indiscriminate killing and intimidation. Moreover, any country that has 
known decades of war will be tested in finding political solutions to its 
problems, and providing governance that can sustain progress and serve the 
needs of its people.

So this war has changed over the last nine years, but it's no less 
important than it was in those days after 9/11. We toppled the Taliban 
regime -- now we must break the momentum of a Taliban insurgency and train 
Afghan security forces. We have supported the election of a sovereign 
government -- now we must strengthen its capacities. We've brought hope to 
the Afghan people -- now we must see that their country does not fall prey 
to our common enemies. Cadets, there will be difficult days ahead. We will 
adapt, we will persist, and I have no doubt that together with our Afghan 
and international partners, we will succeed in Afghanistan.

Now even as we fight the wars in front of us, we also have to see the 
horizon beyond these wars -- because unlike a terrorist whose goal is to 
destroy, our future will be defined by what we build. We have to see that 
horizon, and to get there we must pursue a strategy of national renewal and 
global leadership. We have to build the sources of America's strength and 
influence, and shape a world that's more peaceful and more prosperous.

Time and again, Americans have risen to meet and to shape moments of 
change. This is one of those moments -- an era of economic transformation 
and individual empowerment; of ancient hatreds and new dangers; of emerging 
powers and new global challenges. And we're going to need all of you to 
help meet these challenges. You've answered the call. You, and all who wear 
America's uniform, remain the cornerstone of our national defense, the 
anchor of global security. And through a period when too many of our 
institutions have acted irresponsibly, the American military has set a 
standard of service and sacrifice that is as great as any in this nation's 
history.

Now the rest of us -- the rest of us must do our part. And to do so, we 
must first recognize that our strength and influence abroad begins with 
steps we take at home. We must educate our children to compete in an age 
where knowledge is capital, and the marketplace is global. We must develop 
clean energy that can power new industry and unbound us from foreign oil 
and preserve our planet. We have to pursue science and research that 
unlocks wonders as unforeseen to us today as the microchip and the surface 
of the moon were a century ago.

Simply put, American innovation must be the foundation of American power -- 
because at no time in human history has a nation of diminished economic 
vitality maintained its military and political primacy. And so that means 
that the civilians among us, as parents and community leaders, elected 
officials, business leaders, we have a role to play. We cannot leave it to 
those in uniform to defend this country -- we have to make sure that 
America is building on its strengths.

As we build these economic sources of our strength, the second thing we 
must do is build and integrate the capabilities that can advance our 
interests, and the common interests of human beings around the world. 
America's armed forces are adapting to changing times, but your efforts 
have to be complemented. We will need the renewed engagement of our 
diplomats, from grand capitals to dangerous outposts. We need development 
experts who can support Afghan agriculture and help Africans build the 
capacity to feed themselves. We need intelligence agencies that work 
seamlessly with their counterparts to unravel plots that run from the 
mountains of Pakistan to the streets of our cities. We need law enforcement 
that can strengthen judicial systems abroad, and protect us here at home. 
And we need first responders who can act swiftly in the event of 
earthquakes and storms and disease.

The burdens of this century cannot fall on our soldiers alone. It also 
cannot fall on American shoulders alone. Our adversaries would like to see 
America sap its strength by overextending our power. And in the past, we've 
always had the foresight to avoid acting alone. We were part of the most 
powerful wartime coalition in human history through World War II. We 
stitched together a community of free nations and institutions to endure 
and ultimately prevail during a Cold War.

Yes, we are clear-eyed about the shortfalls of our international system. 
But America has not succeeded by stepping out of the currents of 
cooperation -- we have succeeded by steering those currents in the 
direction of liberty and justice, so nations thrive by meeting their 
responsibilities and face consequences when they don't.

So we have to shape an international order that can meet the challenges of 
our generation. We will be steadfast in strengthening those old alliances 
that have served us so well, including those who will serve by your side in 
Afghanistan and around the globe. As influence extends to more countries 
and capitals, we also have to build new partnerships, and shape stronger 
international standards and institutions.

This engagement is not an end in itself. The international order we seek is 
one that can resolve the challenges of our times -- countering violent 
extremism and insurgency; stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and 
securing nuclear materials; combating a changing climate and sustaining 
global growth; helping countries feed themselves and care for their sick; 
preventing conflict and healing wounds. If we are successful in these 
tasks, that will lessen conflicts around the world. It will be supportive 
of our efforts by our military to secure our country.

More than anything else, though, our success will be claimed by who we are 
as a country. This is more important than ever, given the nature of the 
challenges that we face. Our campaign to disrupt, dismantle, and to defeat 
al Qaeda is part of an international effort that is necessary and just.

But this is a different kind of war. There will be no simple moment of 
surrender to mark the journey's end -- no armistice, no banner headline. 
Though we have had more success in eliminating al Qaeda leaders in recent 
months than in recent years, they will continue to recruit, and plot, and 
exploit our open society. We see that in bombs that go off in Kabul and 
Karachi. We see it in attempts to blow up an airliner over Detroit or an 
SUV in Times Square, even as these failed attacks show that pressure on 
networks like al Qaeda is forcing them to rely on terrorists with less time 
and space to train. We see the potential duration of this struggle in al 
Qaeda's gross distortions of Islam, their disrespect for human life, and 
their attempt to prey upon fear and hatred and prejudice.

So the threat will not go away soon, but let's be clear: Al Qaeda and its 
affiliates are small men on the wrong side of history. They lead no nation. 
They lead no religion. We need not give in to fear every time a terrorist 
tries to scare us. We should not discard our freedoms because extremists 
try to exploit them. We cannot succumb to division because others try to 
drive us apart. We are the United States of America. We are the United 
States of America, and we have repaired our union, and faced down fascism, 
and outlasted communism. We've gone through turmoil, we've gone through 
Civil War, and we have come out stronger -- and we will do so once more.

And I know this to be true because I see the strength and resilience of the 
American people. Terrorists want to scare us. New Yorkers just go about 
their lives unafraid. Extremists want a war between America and Islam, but 
Muslims are part of our national life, including those who serve in our 
United States Army. Adversaries want to divide us, but we are united by our 
support for you -- soldiers who send a clear message that this country is 
both the land of the free and the home of the brave.

You know, in an age of instant access to information, a lot of cynicism in 
the news, it's easy to lose perspective in a flood of pictures and the 
swirl of political debate. Power and influence can seem to ebb and flow. 
Wars and grand plans can be deemed won or lost day to day, even hour to 
hour. As we experience the immediacy of the image of a suffering child or 
the boasts of a prideful dictator, it's easy to give in to the belief 
sometimes that human progress has stalled -- that events are beyond our 
control, that change is not possible.

But this nation was founded upon a different notion. We believe, "that all 
men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain 
unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of 
happiness." And that truth has bound us together, a nation populated by 
people from around the globe, enduring hardship and achieving greatness as 
one people. And that belief is as true today as it was 200 years ago. It is 
a belief that has been claimed by people of every race and religion in 
every region of the world. Can anybody doubt that this belief will be any 
less true -- any less powerful -- two years, two decades, or even two 
centuries from now?

And so a fundamental part of our strategy for our security has to be 
America's support for those universal rights that formed the creed of our 
founding. And we will promote these values above all by living them -- 
through our fidelity to the rule of law and our Constitution, even when 
it's hard; even when we're being attacked; even when we're in the midst of 
war.

And we will commit ourselves to forever pursuing a more perfect union. 
Together with our friends and allies, America will always seek a world that 
extends these rights so that when an individual is being silenced, we aim 
to be her voice. Where ideas are suppressed, we provide space for open 
debate. Where democratic institutions take hold, we add a wind at their 
back. When humanitarian disaster strikes, we extend a hand. Where human 
dignity is denied, America opposes poverty and is a source of opportunity. 
That is who we are. That is what we do.

We do so with no illusions. We understand change doesn't come quick. We 
understand that neither America nor any nation can dictate every outcome 
beyond its borders. We know that a world of mortal men and women will never 
be rid of oppression or evil. What we can do, what we must do, is work and 
reach and fight for the world that we seek -- all of us, those in uniform 
and those who are not.

And in preparing for today, I turned to the world -- to the words of Oliver 
Wendell Holmes. And reflecting on his Civil War experience, he said, and I 
quote, "To fight out a war you must believe in something and want something 
with all your might. So must you do to carry anything else to an end worth 
reaching." Holmes went on, "More than that, you must be willing to commit 
yourself to a course, perhaps a long and hard one, without being able to 
foresee exactly where you will come out."

America does not fight for the sake of fighting. We abhor war. As one who 
has never experienced the field of battle -- and I say that with humility, 
knowing, as General MacArthur said, "The soldier above all others prays for 
peace  " -- we fight because we must. 
We fight to keep our families and communities safe. We fight for the 
security of our allies and partners, because America believes that we will 
be safer when our friends are safer; that we will be stronger when the 
world is more just.

So cadets, a long and hard road awaits you. You go abroad because your 
service is fundamental to our security back home. You go abroad as 
representatives of the values that this country was founded upon. And when 
you inevitably face setbacks -- when the fighting is fierce or a village 
elder is fearful; when the end that you are seeking seems uncertain -- 
think back to West Point.

Here, in this peaceful part of the world, you have drilled and you have 
studied and come of age in the footsteps of great men and women -- 
Americans who faced times of trial, and who even in victory could not have 
foreseen the America they helped to build, the world they helped to shape.

George Washington was able to free a band of patriots from the rule of an 
empire, but he could not have foreseen his country growing to include 50 
states connecting two oceans.

Grant was able to save a union and see the slaves freed, but he could not 
have foreseen just how much his country would extend full rights and 
opportunities to citizens of every color.

Eisenhower was able to see Germany surrender and a former enemy grow into 
an ally, but he could not have foreseen the Berlin Wall coming down without 
a shot being fired.

Today it is your generation that has borne a heavy burden -- soldiers, 
graduates of this Academy like John Meyer and Greg Ambrosia who have braved 
enemy fire, protected their units, carried out their missions, earned the 
commendation of this Army, and of a grateful nation.

From the birth of our existence, America has had a faith in the future -- a 
belief that where we're going is better than where we've been, even when 
the path ahead is uncertain. To fulfill that promise, generations of 
Americans have built upon the foundation of our forefathers -- finding 
opportunity, fighting injustice, forging a more perfect union. Our 
achievement would not be possible without the Long Grey Line that has 
sacrificed for duty, for honor, for country.

And years from now when you return here, when for you the shadows have 
grown longer, I have no doubt that you will have added your name to the 
book of history. I have no doubt that we will have prevailed in the 
struggles of our times. I have no doubt that your legacy will be an America 
that has emerged stronger, and a world that is more just, because we are 
Americans, and our destiny is never written for us, it is written by us, 
and we are ready to lead once more.

Thank you. May God bless you. And may God bless the United States of 
America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.