 

 

Barack Obama

Commencement Speech at Kalamazoo Central High School

delivered 7 June 2010

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you.  Thank you, everybody.  Please be seated.  Hello, Giants.  It is 
good -- It is good to be here, and congratulations Class of 2010.  I am 
honored to be part of this special occasion.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE PRESIDENT:  And I love you back.  Let me acknowledge your extraordinary 
governor, Jennifer Granholm.  Superintendent Rice, thank you for your 
inspiring words.  Your mayor, Bobby Hopewell, who I understand is a proud 
Kalamazoo graduate himself.    

Thanks to Principal Washington for -- not just for the warm introduction, 
but for his enthusiasm and his energy and his leadership and his nice 
singing voice. Thank you.  To all the trustees, to the alumni, to the 
parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins -- everybody who’s been a 
part of this extraordinary place.

And I want to recognize our student speakers.  Cindy, who embodies the best 
of our traditions in this country -- arrived three or four years ago and 
graduates as the valedictorian -- this is what is continually replenishing 
the energy and the dynamism and the innovation of this country, and we 
could not be prouder of you.  Thank you.  And to Simon, I’m glad that, 
according to the Constitution, you can’t run till you’re 35. So I’ll be 
long gone by then. But it gives me great confidence to know that we’ve got 
such incredible young leaders who are going to be remaking the world in so 
many different ways.

Now, recently, an article from your local paper, the Kalamazoo Gazette -- 
was brought to my attention.  And it ran just after this school had been 
chosen as one of the six finalists in our Race to the Top Commencement 
Challenge.  And for those who aren’t aware of it, this is a contest to 
highlight schools that promote academic excellence, personal responsibility 
and that best prepare students for college and careers.  And this article 
in the Gazette quoted a young lady named Kelsey Wilson. Where is -- Is 
Kelsey here?  She right over there?  Anyway --

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  She’s here.

THE PRESIDENT:  She’s over there?  Hey, Kelsey.  How are you?

So Kelsey was quoted as saying, “We’re the kind of school that never gets 
credit for what we do.  And our school is amazing.”  This is what Kelsey 
said, “Our school is amazing.”

Well, Kelsey, Class of 2010, members of the Kalamazoo community, I’m here 
tonight because after three rounds of competition, with more than a 
thousand schools, and more than 170,000 votes cast, I know -- and America 
knows -- what you’ve done at Kalamazoo Central.  You are amazing!  We know. 
 We know.  Our amazing Secretary of Education Arne Duncan knows.   Folks in 
Washington know, folks across the country know, and hopefully after 
tonight, everybody knows. 

Now, together as a community, you’ve embraced the motto of this school 
district:  “Every child, every opportunity, every time.”  Every time.  
Every child, every opportunity, every time, because you believe, like I do, 
that every young person, every child -- regardless of what they look like, 
where they come from, how much money their parents have -- every child who 
walks through your schoolhouse doors deserves a quality education.  No 
exceptions.

And I’m here tonight because I think that America has a lot to learn from 
Kalamazoo Central about what makes for a successful school in this new 
century.  You’ve got educators raising standards and then inspiring their 
students to meet them.  You’ve got community members who are stepping up as 
tutors and mentors and coaches.  You got parents who are taking an active 
interest in their child’s education -- attending those teacher conferences, 
yes, turning off the TV once in a while, making sure homework gets done. 

Arne Duncan is here tonight because these are the values, these are the 
changes that he’s encouraging in every school in this nation.  It’s the key 
to our future.

But the most important ingredient is you:  students who raised your sights, 
who aimed high, who invested yourselves in your own success.  It’s no 
accident that so many of you have received college admissions letters, 
Class of 2010.  That didn’t happen by accident.  It happened because you 
worked for it.  As the superintendent said, you earned it.

So, Kelsey, I agree with you.  What you’ve done here at Kalamazoo Central 
is amazing.  I am proud of you.  Your parents are proud of you.  Your 
teachers, your principal -- we’re all incredibly proud.

Now, graduates, all these folks around you, I have to say, though, with the 
cameras and the beaming smiles -- they’ve worked hard to give you 
everything you need to pursue your dreams and fulfill your God-given 
talent.  Unfortunately, you can’t take them with you when you leave here.  
No one is going to go follow you around making sure that you’re getting to 
class on time, making sure you’re doing your work.  Nobody is going to be 
doing that for you.  Going forward, that’s all on you -- responsibility for 
your success is squarely on your shoulders. 

And the question I have for you today is this:  What is each -- what are 
each of you going to do to meet that responsibility? 

Now, right now you’re getting plenty of advice from everybody.  Some of 
it’s helpful.  And so I hate to pile on with advice.  But while I’m here -- 
what the heck.  I figure I should offer a few thoughts based on my own 
experiences, but also based on my hopes for all of you, and for our 
country, in the years ahead.

First, understand that your success in life won’t be determined just by 
what’s given to you, or what happens to you, but by what you do with all 
that’s given to you; what you do with all that happens to you; how hard you 
try; how far you push yourself; how high you’re willing to reach.  True 
excellence only comes with perseverance. 

This wasn’t something I really understood when I was back your age.  My 
father, some of you know, left my family when I was two years old.  I was 
raised by a single mom and my grandparents.  And sometimes I had a tendency 
to goof off.  As my mother put it, I had a tendency sometimes to act a bit 
casual about my future.  Sometimes I was rebellious.  Sometimes I partied a 
little too much.  Oh, yes, yes, this is a cautionary tale.  Don’t be 
cheering when I say that.  Studied just enough to get by.  I thought hard 
work, responsibility, that’s old-fashioned.  That’s just people want to 
tell me what to do. 

But after a few years, after I was living solely on my own and I realized 
that living solely for my own entertainment wasn’t so entertaining anymore, 
that it wasn’t particularly satisfying anymore, that I didn’t seem to be 
making much of a ripple in the world, I started to change my tune.  I 
realized that by refusing to apply myself, there was nothing I could point 
to that I was proud of that would last. 

Now, you come of an age in a popular culture that actually reinforces this 
approach to life.  You watch TV, and basically what it says is you can be 
rich and successful without much effort; you just have to become a 
celebrity.  If you can achieve some reality TV notoriety, that’s better 
than lasting achievement.  We live in a culture that tells you there’s a 
quick fix for every problem and a justification for every selfish desire.  
And all of you were raised with cell phones and iPods, and texting and 
emails, and you’re able to call up a fact, or a song, or a friend with the 
click of a button.  So you’re used to instant gratification.

But meaningful achievement, lasting success -- it doesn’t happen in an 
instant.  It’s not about luck, it’s not about a sudden stroke of genius.  
It’s not usually about talent.  It’s usually about daily effort, the large 
choices and the small choices that you make that add up over time.  It’s 
about the skills you build, and the knowledge you accumulate, and the 
energy you invest in every task, no matter how trivial or menial it may 
seem at the time. 

You’ve got an alum who plays for the Yankees, I hear.  He’s supposed to be 
pretty good.  Now, Derek Jeter wasn’t born playing shortstop for the 
Yankees.  He got there through years of effort.  And his high school 
baseball coach once remarked, “I’m surprised he still doesn’t have blisters 
and that I don’t have the blisters on my hands from hitting ground balls 
just for Derek.”  He always wanted more:  ‘How about one more turn in the 
batting cage?  Or 25 more ground balls?’”

Thomas Edison tested more than 6,000 different materials for just one tiny 
part of the light bulb that he invented.  Think about that -- 6,000 tests.  
J.K. Rowling’s first Harry Potter book was rejected 12 times before it was 
finally published.  Mozart was a musical prodigy, but he practiced for 
hours each day -- accumulating thousands of hours at the piano by the time 
he was just six years old.  I understand that your boys’ basketball team 
did pretty good.  First state champions for the first time in 59 years.  
That didn’t happen by accident.  They put in work.  They put in effort.

So, today, you all have a rare and valuable chance to pursue your own 
passions, chase your own dreams without incurring a mountain of debt.  What 
an incredible gift.  So you’ve got no excuse for giving anything less than 
your best effort.  No excuses.   

That’s my second piece of advice, very simple:  Don’t make excuses.  Take 
responsibility not just for your successes; take responsibility where you 
fall short as well.  

Now, the truth is, no matter how hard you work, you’re not going to ace 
every class -- well, maybe Cindy will, but -- but you’re not going to ace 
every class.  You’re not going to succeed the first time you try something. 
 There are going to be times when you screw up.  There will be times where 
you hurt people you love.  There will be times where you make a mistake and 
you stray from the values that you hold most deeply. 

And when that happens, it’s the easiest thing in the world to start looking 
around for somebody else to blame.  Your professor was too hard; your boss 
was a jerk; the coaches -- was playing favorites; your friend just didn’t 
understand.  Your wife -- oh, no.   I’m just messing with Michelle right 
there.  That was all in fun. 

No, but this is an easy habit to get into.  You see it every day in 
Washington -- every day -- folks calling each other names, making all sorts 
of accusations on television.  Everybody is always pointing a finger at 
somebody else.  You notice that? 

Now, this community could have easily gone down that road.  This community 
could have made excuses -- well, our kids have fewer advantages, our 
schools have fewer resources -- how can we compete?  You could have spent 
years pointing fingers -- blaming parents, blaming teachers, blaming the 
principal, blaming the superintendent, blaming the President.

But that’s -- Class of 2010, I want you to pay attention on this because 
that’s not what happened.  Instead, this community was honest with itself 
about where you were falling short.  You resolved to do better, push your 
kids harder, open their minds wider, expose them to all kinds of ideas and 
people and experiences. 

So, graduates, I hope you’ll continue those efforts.  Don’t make excuses.  
And I hope that wherever you go, you won’t narrow the broad intellectual 
and social exposure you’ve had here at Kalamazoo Central -- instead, seek 
to expand it.  Don’t just hang out with people who look like you, or go to 
the same church you do, or share your political views.  Broaden your circle 
to include people with different backgrounds and life experiences.  Because 
that’s how you’ll end up learning what it’s like to walk in somebody else’s 
shoes.  That’s how you’ll come to understand the challenges other people 
face. 

And this is not just an academic exercise.  It’s a way to broaden your 
ambit of concern and learn to see yourselves in each other. 

Which brings me to my final piece of advice for today, and that’s to give 
back, to be part of something bigger than yourselves.  Hitch your wagon to 
something that is bigger than yourselves.

I know that so many of you have already served your community through 
efforts like your Stuff the Bus food drives and groups like Activists for 
Action.  And I commend you for that.

But I also know that many of you are the first in your family to go to 
college.  And right about now, you may be feeling all the weight of their 
hopes and expectations coming down on your shoulders. 

And once you start juggling those classes and activities and that campus 
job, and you get caught up in your own dreams and your own anxieties and 
dating -- you may feel like you’ve got enough on your plate just dealing 
with your own life.  It might be easier to turn the channel when the news 
disturbs you, to avert your eyes when you pass that homeless man on the 
street, to tell yourself that other people’s problems really aren’t your 
responsibility.

But just think about what the consequence of that approach to life would 
have been if that’s how folks had acted here in this community.  What if 
those Kalamazoo Promise donors had said to themselves, “Well, you know 
what, I can pay for my own kid’s education.  Why should I have to pay for 
somebody else’s?” 

Think about the consequences for our country.  What if our Founding Fathers 
had said, “You know, colonialism is kind of oppressive, but I’m doing okay, 
my family’s doing all right, why should I spend my summer in Philadelphia 
arguing about a Constitution?” 

What if those abolitionists, those civil right workers had said, “You know, 
slavery is wrong, segregation is wrong, but it’s kind of dangerous to get 
mixed up in that stuff.  I don’t have time for all those meetings and 
marches.  I think I’m going to take a pass.  I hope it works out, but 
that’s not something I want to do.” 

I want you to think for a minute about the extraordinary men and women 
who’ve worn our country’s uniform and have given their last full measure of 
devotion to keep us safe and free.  What if they said -- what if they said, 
“I really do love this country, but why should I sacrifice so much for 
people I’ve never even met?”  Young men and women in uniform right now 
making those sacrifices.

So you and I are here today because those people made a different choice.  
They chose to step up.  They chose to serve.  And I hope you will follow 
their example, because there is work to be done, and your country needs 
you.  We’ve got an economy to rebuild.  We’ve got children to educate.  
We’ve got diseases to cure.  We’ve got threats to face.  We’ve got an oil 
spill to clean up.  We’ve got clean energy to discover.  And it is going to 
be up to you to meet all of those challenges -- to build industries and 
make discoveries and inspire the next generation.  It’s going to be up to 
you to heal the divide that continues to afflict our world. 

Now, I’m not saying you got to do it here all at once.  But as Theodore 
Roosevelt once put it, I’m asking you to “Do what you can, with what you’ve 
got, where you are.”  And I can guarantee that wherever your journey takes 
you, there are going to be children who need mentors and senior citizens 
who need assistance, folks down on their luck who could use a helping hand. 


And once you’ve reached out and formed those connections, you’ll find it’s 
a little harder to numb yourself to other people’s suffering.  It’s a 
little harder to ignore the national debates about the issues that affect 
their lives and yours.

In the end, service binds us to each other -- and to our communities and 
our country -- in a way that nothing else can.  It’s how we become more 
fully American. 

That’s the reason those donors created the Kalamazoo Promise in the first 
place -- not for recognition or reward, but because of their connection to 
this community; because their belief in your potential; because their faith 
that you would use this gift not just to enrich your own lives, but the 
lives of others and the life of the nation.

And I’m told that soon after the Promise was established, a first grader 
approached the superintendent at the time and declared to her:  “I’m going 
to college.”  First grader.  “I’m going to college.  I don’t know what it 
is, but I’m going.” 

We may never know those donors’ names, but we know how they helped bring 
this community together and how you’ve embraced their Promise not just as a 
gift to be appreciated, but a responsibility to be fulfilled.  We know how 
they have helped inspire an entire generation of young people here in 
Kalamazoo to imagine a different future for themselves. 

And graduates, today, I’m asking you to pay them back by seeking to have 
the same kind of impact with your own lives; by pursuing excellence in 
everything you do; by serving this country that you love.

I know that you can do it.  After all, you are the Giants -- and with the 
education you’ve gotten here, there’s nothing you can’t do. 

Thank you very much, everybody.  God bless you.  And God bless the United 
States of America.  And God bless the Class of 2010.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.