 

 

Barack Obama

START Treaty Signing Joint Presser with President Medvedev

delivered 08 April 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everyone.  I am honored to be back here in the Czech 
Republic with President Medvedev and our Czech hosts to mark this historic 
completion of the New START treaty  .

Let me begin by saying how happy I am to be back in the beautiful city of 
Prague.  The Czech Republic, of course, is a close friend and ally of the 
United States, and I have great admiration and affection for the Czech 
people.  Their bonds with the American people are deep and enduring, and 
Czechs have made great contributions to the United States over many decades 
-- including in my hometown of Chicago.  I want to thank the President and 
all those involved in helping to host this extraordinary event.

I want to thank my friend and partner, Dmitry Medvedev.  Without his 
personal efforts and strong leadership, we would not be here today.  We’ve 
met and spoken by phone many times throughout the negotiations of this 
treaty, and as a consequence we’ve developed a very effective working 
relationship built on candor, cooperation, and mutual respect.

One year ago this week, I came here to Prague and gave a speech outlining 
America’s comprehensive commitment to stopping the spread of nuclear 
weapons and seeking the ultimate goal of a world without them.  I said then 
-- and I will repeat now -- that this is a long-term goal, one that may not 
even be achieved in my lifetime.  But I believed then -- as I do now -- 
that the pursuit of that goal will move us further beyond the Cold War, 
strengthen the global non-proliferation regime, and make the United States, 
and the world, safer and more secure.  One of the steps that I called for 
last year was the realization of this treaty, so it’s very gratifying to be 
back in Prague today.

I also came to office committed to “resetting” relations between the United 
States and Russia, and I know that President Medvedev shared that 
commitment.  As he said at our first meeting in London, our relationship 
had started to drift, making it difficult to cooperate on issues of common 
interest to our people.  And when the United States and Russia are not able 
to work together on big issues, it’s not good for either of our nations, 
nor is it good for the world.

Together, we’ve stopped that drift, and proven the benefits of cooperation. 
 Today is an important milestone for nuclear security and 
non-proliferation, and for U.S.-Russia relations.  It fulfills our common 
objective to negotiate a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty.  It includes 
significant reductions in the nuclear weapons that we will deploy.  It cuts 
our delivery vehicles by roughly half.  It includes a comprehensive 
verification regime, which allows us to further build trust.  It enables 
both sides the flexibility to protect our security, as well as America’s 
unwavering commitment to the security of our European allies.  And I look 
forward to working with the United States Senate to achieve ratification 
for this important treaty later this year.

Finally, this day demonstrates the determination of the United States and 
Russia -- the two nations that hold over 90 percent of the world’s nuclear 
weapons -- to pursue responsible global leadership.  Together, we are 
keeping our commitments under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which 
must be the foundation for global non-proliferation.

While the New START treaty  is an important 
first step forward, it is just one step on a longer journey.  As I said 
last year in Prague, this treaty will set the stage for further cuts.  And 
going forward, we hope to pursue discussions with Russia on reducing both 
our strategic and tactical weapons, including non-deployed weapons.

President Medvedev and I have also agreed to expand our discussions on 
missile defense.  This will include regular exchanges of information about 
our threat assessments, as well as the completion of a joint assessment of 
emerging ballistic missiles.  And as these assessments are completed, I 
look forward to launching a serious dialogue about Russian-American 
cooperation on missile defense.

But nuclear weapons are not simply an issue for the United States and 
Russia -- they threaten the common security of all nations.  A nuclear 
weapon in the hands of a terrorist is a danger to people everywhere -- from 
Moscow to New York; from the cities of Europe to South Asia.  So next week, 
47 nations will come together in Washington to discuss concrete steps that 
can be taken to secure all vulnerable nuclear materials around the world in 
four years.

And the spread of nuclear weapons to more states is also an unacceptable 
risk to global security -- raising the specter of arms races from the 
Middle East to East Asia.  Earlier this week, the United States formally 
changed our policy to make it clear that those [non]-nuclear weapons states 
that are in compliance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and their 
non-proliferation obligations will not be threatened by America’s nuclear 
arsenal.  This demonstrates, once more, America’s commitment to the NPT as 
a cornerstone of our security strategy.  Those nations that follow the 
rules will find greater security and opportunity.  Those nations that 
refuse to meet their obligations will be isolated, and denied the 
opportunity that comes with international recognition.

That includes accountability for those that break the rules -- otherwise 
the NPT is just words on a page.  That’s why the United States and Russia 
are part of a coalition of nations insisting that the Islamic Republic of 
Iran face consequences, because they have continually failed to meet their 
obligations.  We are working together at the United Nations Security 
Council to pass strong sanctions on Iran.  And we will not tolerate actions 
that flout the NPT, risk an arms race in a vital region, and threaten the 
credibility of the international community and our collective security.

While these issues are a top priority, they are only one part of the 
U.S.-Russia relationship.  Today, I again expressed my deepest condolences 
for the terrible loss of Russian life in recent terrorist attacks, and we 
will remain steadfast partners in combating violent extremism.  We also 
discussed the potential to expand our cooperation on behalf of economic 
growth, trade and investment, as well as technological innovation, and I 
look forward to discussing these issues further when President Medvedev 
visits the United States later this year, because there is much we can do 
on behalf of our security and prosperity if we continue to work together.

When one surveys the many challenges that we face around the world, it’s 
easy to grow complacent, or to abandon the notion that progress can be 
shared.  But I want to repeat what I said last year in Prague:  When 
nations and peoples allow themselves to be defined by their differences, 
the gulf between them widens.  When we fail to pursue peace, then it stays 
forever beyond our grasp.

This majestic city of Prague is in many ways a monument to human progress.  
And this ceremony is a testament to the truth that old adversaries can 
forge new partnerships.  I could not help but be struck the other day by 
the words of Arkady Brish, who helped build the Soviet Union’s first atom 
bomb.  At the age of 92, having lived to see the horrors of a World War and 
the divisions of a Cold War, he said, “We hope humanity will reach the 
moment when there is no need for nuclear weapons, when there is peace and 
calm in the world.”

It’s easy to dismiss those voices.  But doing so risks repeating the 
horrors of the past, while ignoring the history of human progress.  The 
pursuit of peace and calm and cooperation among nations is the work of both 
leaders and peoples in the 21st century.  For we must be as persistent and 
passionate in our pursuit of progress as any who would stand in our way.

Once again, President Medvedev, thank you for your extraordinary 
leadership.

[Address by Medvedev - deleted text and audio]

 

President Obama:  ...from missiles launched from third countries. We 
recognize, however, that Russia has a significant interest in this issue, 
and what we’ve committed to doing is to engaging in a significant 
discussion not only bilaterally but also having discussions with our 
European allies and others about a framework in which we can potentially 
cooperate on issues of missile defense in a way that preserves U.S. 
national security interests, preserves Russia’s national security 
interests, and allows us to guard against a rogue missile from any source.

So I’m actually optimistic that having completed this treaty, which signals 
our strong commitment to a reduction in overall nuclear weapons, and that I 
believe is going to strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty regime, 
that sends a signal around the world that the United States and Russia are 
prepared to once again take leadership in moving in the direction of 
reducing reliance on nuclear weapons and preventing the spread of nuclear 
weapons, as well as nuclear materials, that we will have built the kind of 
trust not only between Presidents but also between governments and between 
peoples that allows us to move forward in a constructive way.

I’ve repeatedly said that we will not do anything that endangers or limits 
my ability as Commander-in-Chief to protect the American people.  And we 
think that missile defense can be an important component of that.  But we 
also want to make clear that the approach that we’ve taken in no way is 
intended to change the strategic balance between the United States and 
Russia.  And I’m actually confident that, moving forward, as we have these 
discussions, it will be part of a broader set of discussions about, for 
example, how we can take tactical nuclear weapons out of theater, the 
possibilities of us making more significant cuts not only in deployed but 
also non-deployed missiles.  There are a whole range of issues that I think 
that we can make significant progress on.  I'm confident that this is an 
important first step in that direction.

 

[President Medvedev's Response - deleted text and audio]

 

Reporter's Question [in Russian and translated to English]:  I have two 
questions.  To each of the Presidents, one.  The first is to Mr. Obama.  
Moscow and Washington, not for the first time, agree on a reduction of 
strategic offensive arms, but as you have mentioned, Russia and the United 
States are not the only countries having nuclear weapons.  So how 
specifically can the documents achieved -- well, similar to today’s 
document on limitation on nuclear arms -- how soon we will see others sign 
this document?  And will you move along this track together with Russia? 
And to the President of the Russian Federation, you have mentioned the fact 
that sometimes there’s an impression that Moscow and Washington are unable 
to agree on anything else but a mutual reduction of arms.  So will we see 
any things that will counter such a statement?  And what will the agreement 
be?

President Obama:  First of all, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, the 
United States and Russia account for 90 percent of the world’s nuclear 
weapons.  And given this legacy of the Cold War, it is critical for us to 
show significant leadership.  That, I think, is what we’ve begun to do with 
this follow-on START treaty.

Other countries are going to have to be making a series of decisions about 
how they approach the issue of their nuclear weapons stockpiles.  And as 
I’ve repeatedly said, and I'm sure Dmitry feels the same way with respect 
to his country, we are going to preserve our nuclear deterrent so long as 
other countries have nuclear weapons, and we are going to make sure that 
that stockpile is safe and secure and effective.

But I do believe that as we look out into the 21st century, that more and 
more countries will come to recognize that the most important factors in 
providing security and peace to their citizens will depend on their 
economic growth, will depend on the capacity of the international community 
to resolve conflicts; it will depend on having a strong conventional 
military that can protect our nations’ borders; and that nuclear weapons 
increasingly in an interdependent world will make less and less sense as 
the cornerstone of security policy.

But that’s going to take some time, and I think each country is going to 
have to make its own determinations.  The key is for the United States and 
Russia to show leadership on this front because we are so far ahead of 
every nation with respect to possession of nuclear weapons.

The primary concerns that we identified in a recent Nuclear Posture Review, 
essentially a declaratory statement of U.S. policy with respect to nuclear 
weapons, said that our biggest concerns right now are actually the issues 
of nuclear terrorism and nuclear proliferation -- more countries obtaining 
nuclear weapons; those weapons being less controllable, less secure; 
nuclear materials floating around the globe.  And that’s going to be a 
major topic of the discussion that we have in Washington on Monday.

The United States and Russia have a history already, a decade-long history, 
of locking down loose nuclear materials.  I believe that our ability to 
move forward already on sanctions with respect to North Korea, the intense 
discussions that we’re having with respect to Iran, will increasingly send 
a signal to countries that are not abiding by their Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation Treaty obligations, that they will be isolated.  All 
those things will go toward sending a general message that we need to move 
in a new direction.  And I think leadership on that front is important.

Last point I'll make, I will just anticipate or coach the question about 
other areas of cooperation.  Our respective foreign ministers -- Secretary 
of State Hillary Clinton and Foreign Minister Lavrov -- have been heading a 
bilateral commission that has been working intensively on a whole range of 
issue.  And President Medvedev and myself identified a series of key areas 
on the economic front, in trade relations, the potential for joint 
cooperation on various industries, how we can work on innovation and 
sparking economic growth.  We've already worked together closely in the 
G20; I think we can build on that bilaterally.

There are issues of counterterrorism that are absolutely critical to both 
of us, and I just want to repeat how horrified all of America was at the 
recent attacks in Moscow.  We recognize that that's a problem that can 
happen anywhere at any time, and it’s important for Russia and the United 
States to work closely on those issues.

And then there are people-to-people contacts and figuring out how we can 
make sure that there’s more interaction and exchange between our two 
countries on a whole range of issues within civil society.

So I'm very optimistic that we're going to continue to make progress on all 
of these fronts.  But I think we should take pride in this particular 
accomplishment because it speaks not only to the security of our two 
nations but also the security of the world as a whole.

 

[President Medvedev's response - deleted text and audio]

 

Reporter's Question:  Thank you, President Medvedev and President Obama.  
For President Obama first, could you elaborate on how the yearlong 
negotiations over the New START treaty have advanced U.S. cooperation with 
Russia on Iran, and give us a sense of when you will pursue, move forward 
in the United Nations and next week with sanctions discussions, and what 
those sanctions might look like? And for President Medvedev, could you 
address whether Russia could accept sanctions against Iran specifically 
dealing with its energy industry and energy sector?  Thank you.

President Obama:  Discussions about sanctions on Iran have been moving 
forward over the last several weeks.  In fact, they’ve been moving forward 
over the last several months.  We’re going to start seeing some ramped-up 
negotiations taking place in New York in the coming weeks.  And my 
expectation is that we are going to be able to secure strong, tough 
sanctions on Iran this spring.

Now, I think there are two ways in which these START negotiations have 
advanced or at least influenced Russia-U.S. discussions around Iran.  The 
first is obviously that President Medvedev and I have been able to build up 
a level of trust and our teams have been able to work together in such a 
way that we can be frank, we can be clear, and that helped to facilitate, 
then, our ability, for example, to work together jointly to present to Iran 
reasonable options that would allow it to clearly distance itself from 
nuclear weapons and pursue a path of peaceful nuclear energy.

That wasn’t just an approach that was taken by the United States and 
Russia, but it was an approach taken by the P5-plus-1 as well as the 
International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA.

So what we’ve seen from the start is that a host of countries, but -- led 
by countries like the United States and Russia, have said to Iran, we are 
willing to work through diplomatic channels to resolve this issue.  And 
unfortunately, Iran has consistently rebuffed our approach.  And I think 
that Russia has been a very strong partner in saying that it has no 
interest in bringing down Iranian society or the Iranian government, but it 
does have an interest, as we all do, in making sure that each country is 
following its international obligations.

The second way in which I think the START treaty has influenced our 
discussions about Iran is it’s sent a strong signal that the United States 
and Iran -- or the United States and Russia are following our own 
obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and that our 
interest in Iran or North Korea or any other country following the NPT is 
not based on singling out any one country, but rather sends a strong signal 
that all of us have an obligation, each country has an obligation to follow 
the rules of the road internationally to ensure a more secure future for 
our children and our grandchildren.

And so I think the fact that we are signing this treaty, the fact that we 
are willing, as the two leading nuclear powers, to continually work on 
reducing our own arsenals, I think should indicate the fact that we are 
willing to be bound by our obligations, and we’re not asking any other 
countries to do anything different, but simply to follow the rules of the 
road that have been set forth and have helped to maintain at least a lack 
of the use of nuclear weapons over the last several decades, despite, 
obviously, the Cold War.

And the concern that I have in particular, a concern that I think is the 
most profound security threat to the United States, is that with further 
proliferation of nuclear weapons, with states obtaining nuclear weapons and 
potentially using them to blackmail other countries or potentially not 
securing them effectively or passing them on to terrorist organizations, 
that we could find ourselves in a world in which not only state actors but 
also potentially non-state actors are in possession of nuclear weapons, and 
even if they don’t use them, would then be in a position to terrorize the 
world community.

That’s why this issue is so important, and that’s why we are going to be 
pushing very hard to make sure that both smart and strong sanctions end up 
being in place soon to send a signal to Iran and other countries that this 
is an issue that the international community takes seriously.

 

[President Medvedev's Response - deleted text and audio]

[Reporter's Question - deleted text and audio] 

[President Medvedev's Response - deleted text and audio]

 

President Obama:  The United States Senate has the obligation of reviewing 
any treaty and, ultimately, ratifying it.  Fortunately there is a strong 
history of bipartisanship when it comes to the evaluation of international 
treaties, particularly arms control treaties.

And so I have already engaged in consultation with the chairmen of the 
relevant committees in the United States Senate.  We are going to broaden 
that consultation now that this treaty has been signed.  My understanding 
is, is that both in Russia and the United States, it’s going to be posed on 
the Internet, appropriate to a 21st century treaty.  And so people not only 
within government but also the general public will be able to review, in an 
open and transparent fashion, what it is that we’ve agreed to.

I think what they will discover is that this is a well-crafted treaty that 
meets the interests of both countries; that meets the interests of the 
world in the United States and Russia reducing its nuclear arsenals and 
setting the stage for potentially further reductions in the future.

And so I'm actually quite confident that Democrats and Republicans in the 
United States Senate, having reviewed this, will see that the United States 
has preserved its core national security interests, that it is maintaining 
a safe and secure and effective nuclear deterrent, but that we are 
beginning to once again move forward, leaving the Cold War behind, to 
address new challenges in new ways.  And I think the START treaty 
represents an important first step in that direction, and I feel confident 
that we are going to be able to get it ratified.

All right?  Thank you very much, everybody.

President Medvedev: Thank you, sir.  Next time.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.