 

 

Barack Obama

Speech on 2010 Budget Sent to Congress

delivered 1 February 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

Good morning, everybody. This morning, I sent a budget to Congress for the 
coming year. It's a budget that reflects the serious challenges facing the 
country. We're at war. Our economy has lost 7 million jobs over the last 
two years. And our government is deeply in debt after what can only be 
described as a decade of profligacy.

The fact is, 10 years ago, we had a budget surplus of more than $200 
billion, with projected surpluses stretching out toward the horizon. Yet 
over the course of the past 10 years, the previous administration and 
previous Congresses created an expensive new drug program, passed massive 
tax cuts for the wealthy, and funded two wars without paying for any of it 
-- all of which was compounded by recession and by rising health care 
costs. As a result, when I first walked through the door, the deficit stood 
at $1.3 trillion, with projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next 
decade.

If we had taken office during ordinary times, we would have started 
bringing down these deficits immediately. But one year ago, our country was 
in crisis: We were losing nearly 700,000 jobs each month, the economy was 
in a free fall, and the financial system was near collapse. Many feared 
another Great Depression. So we initiated a rescue, and that rescue was not 
without significant cost; it added to the deficit as well.

One year later, because of the steps we've taken, we're in a very different 
place. But we can't simply move beyond this crisis; we have to address the 
irresponsibility that led to it. And that includes the failure to rein in 
spending, as well a reliance on borrowing -- from Wall Street to Washington 
to Main Street -- to fuel our growth. That's what we have to change. We 
have to do what families across America are doing: Save where we can so 
that we can afford what we need.

Now, I think it's very important to understand: We won't be able to bring 
down this deficit overnight, given that the recovery is still taking hold 
and families across the country still need help. We will continue, for 
example, to do what it takes to create jobs. That's reflected in my budget; 
it's essential. The budget includes new tax cuts for people who invest in 
small businesses, tax credits for small businesses that hire new workers, 
investments that will create jobs repairing roads and bridges, and tax 
breaks for retrofitting homes to save energy.

We also continue to lay a new foundation for lasting growth, which is 
essential as well. Just as it would be a terrible mistake to borrow against 
our children's future to pay our way today, it would be equally wrong to 
neglect their future by failing to invest in areas that will determine our 
economic success in this new century.

That's why we build on the largest investment in clean energy in history, 
as well as increase investment in scientific research, so that we are 
fostering the industries and jobs of the future right here in America.

That's why I've proposed a more than 6 percent increase in funding for the 
Education Department.  And this funding is tied to reforms that raise 
student achievement, inspire students to excel in math and science, and 
turn around failing schools which consign too many young people to a lesser 
future -- because in the 21st century there is no better anti-poverty 
program than a world-class education.

And that's why we eliminate a wasteful subsidy to banks that lend to 
college students, and use that money to revitalize community colleges and 
make college more affordable. This will help us reach the goal I've set for 
America: By 2020 we will once again have the highest proportion of college 
graduates in the world.

These are the investments we must make to create jobs and opportunity now 
and in the future.  And in a departure from the way business had been done 
in Washington, we actually show how we pay for these investments while 
putting our country on a more fiscally sustainable path.

I've proposed a freeze in government spending for three years. This won't 
apply to the benefits folks get through Social Security, Medicaid, or 
Medicare. And it won't apply to our national security -- including benefits 
for veterans. But it will apply to all other discretionary government 
programs. And we're not simply photocopying last year's budget; freezing 
spending does not mean we won't cut what doesn't work to pay for what does.

We have gone through every department's spending line by line, item by 
item, looking for inefficiency, duplication, and programs that have 
outlived their usefulness. That's how we freeze discretionary spending. 
Last year, we found $17 billion in cuts. This year, we've already found $20 
billion.

Now, some of these cuts are just common sense. For example, we cut $115 
million from a program that pays states to clean up mines that have already 
been cleaned up. We're also cutting a Forest Service economic development 
program that strayed so far from any mission that it funded a music 
festival. And we're saving $20 million by stopping the refurbishment of a 
Department of Energy science center that the Department of Energy does not 
want to refurbish.

Other cuts, though, are more painful, because the goals of the underlying 
programs are worthy.  We eliminate one program that provides grants to do 
environmental clean up of abandoned buildings. That's a mission I support, 
but there are other sources of private and public funds to achieve it. We 
also eliminated a $120 million program that allows folks to get their 
Earned Income Tax Credit in advance. I am a big supporter of the Earned 
Income Tax Credit. The problem is 80 percent of people who got this advance 
didn't comply with one or more of the program's requirements.

So I'm willing to reduce waste in programs I care about, and I'm asking 
members of Congress to do the same.  I'm asking Republicans and Democrats 
alike to take a fresh look at programs they've supported in the past to see 
what's working and what's not, and trim back accordingly.
 
Like any business, we're also looking for ways to get more bang for our 
buck, by promoting innovation and cutting red tape. For example, we 
consolidate 38 separate education programs into 11. And last fall, we 
launched the "SAVE Awards" to solicit ideas from federal employees about 
how make government more efficient and more effective. I'm proud to say 
that a number of these ideas -- like allowing Social Security appointments 
to be made online -- made it into our budget.

I also want to note even though the Department of Defense is exempt from 
the budget freeze, it's not exempt from budget common sense. It's not 
exempt from looking for savings. We save money by eliminating unnecessary 
defense programs that do nothing to keep us safe. One example is the $2.5 
billion that we're spending to build C-17 transport aircraft. Four years 
ago, the Defense Department decided to cease production because it had 
acquired the number requested -- 180. Yet every year since, Congress had 
provided unrequested money for more C-17s that the Pentagon doesn't want or 
need. It's waste, pure and simple.

And there are other steps we're taking to rein in deficits. I've proposed a 
fee on big banks to pay back taxpayers for the bailout. We're reforming the 
way contracts are awarded, to save taxpayers billions of dollars. And while 
we extend middle-class tax cuts in this budget, we will not continue costly 
tax cuts for oil companies, investment fund managers, and those making over 
$250,000 a year. We just can't afford it.

Finally, changing spending-as-usual depends on changing politics-as-usual. 
And that's why I've proposed a bipartisan fiscal commission: a panel of 
Democrats and Republicans who would hammer out concrete deficit reduction 
proposals over the medium and long term, but would come up with those 
answers by a certain deadline. I should point out, by the way, that is an 
idea that had strong bipartisan support, was originally introduced by 
Senators Gregg on the Republican side and Conrad on the Democratic side; 
had a lot of Republican cosponsors to the idea. I hope that, despite the 
fact that it got voted down in the Senate, that both the Republican Leader 
Mitch McConnell and the Republican Leader in the House John Boehner go 
ahead and fully embrace what has been a bipartisan idea to get our arms 
around this budget.

That's also why we're restoring pay-as-you-go: a simple rule that says 
Congress can't spend a dime without cutting a dime elsewhere. This rule 
helped lead to the budget surpluses of the 1990s, and it's one of the most 
important steps we can take to restore fiscal discipline in Washington.

You can read more about the budget at budget.gov  
-- very easy to remember -- budget.gov  . But the 
bottom line is this: We simply cannot continue to spend as if deficits 
don't have consequences; as if waste doesn't matter; as if the hard-earned 
tax dollars of the American people can be treated like Monopoly money; as 
if we can ignore this challenge for another generation. We can't.

In order to meet this challenge, I welcome any idea, from Democrats and 
Republicans. What I will not welcome -- what I reject -- is the same old 
grandstanding when the cameras are on, and the same irresponsible budget 
policies when the cameras are off. It's time to hold Washington to the same 
standards families and businesses hold themselves. It's time to save what 
we can, spend what we must, and live within our means once again.

Thanks very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.
HTML transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.