 

 

Barack Obama & William J. Clinton

Press Conference on Tax Cuts

delivered 10 December 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

PRESIDENT OBAMA: I thought it was a slow day, so I’ve --

Q    Slow news day, huh?

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  -- bring the other guy in.

Obviously, there’s a big debate going on about taxes, and about the need to 
grow the economy and to create jobs.  And just about every day this week, 
I’ve been making an argument as to why the agreement that we’ve struck to 
provide billions of dollars in payroll tax cuts that can immediately help 
rejuvenate the economy, as well as tax cuts for middle-class families, 
unemployment insurance for folks who desperately need it, credits for 
college, Child Tax Credits, as well as a range of business investments 
credits are so important to make sure that we keep this recovery moving.

I just had a terrific meeting with the former President, President Bill 
Clinton.  And we just happened to have this as a topic of conversation.  
And I thought, given the fact that he presided over as good an economy as 
we’ve seen in our lifetimes, that it might be useful for him to share some 
of his thoughts.

I’m going to let him speak very briefly.  And then I’ve actually got to go 
over and do some -- just one more Christmas party.  So he may decide he 
wants to take some questions, but I want to make sure that you guys hear it 
from him directly.

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Thank you very much, Mr. President.  First of 
all, I feel awkward being here, and now you’re going to leave me all by 
myself. Let me just say a couple of things.  First of all, I still spend 
about an hour a day trying to study this economy.  And I’m not running for 
anything, and I don’t have a political agenda.  I just -- I try to figure 
out what to do.

I have reviewed this agreement that the President reached with Republican 
leaders.  And I want to make full disclosure I make quite a bit of money 
now, so the position that the Republicans have urged will personally 
benefit me.  And on its own, I wouldn’t support it because I don’t think 
that my tax cut is the most economically efficient way to get the economy 
going again.  But I don’t want to be in the dark about the fact that I will 
receive the continuation of the tax rates.

However, the agreement taken as a whole is, I believe, the best bipartisan 
agreement we can reach to help the largest number of Americans, and to 
maximize the chances that the economic recovery will accelerate and create 
more jobs, and to minimize the chances that it will slip back, which is 
what has happened in other financial collapses.  Like, that’s what Japan 
faced, and it’s something that we have to avoid in America.

Why do I say that?  First of all, because clearly the extension of 
unemployment, which gives people a percentage of the income they were 
previously making, will -- that money will be spent and it will bolster the 
economy for the next couple of years.

Secondly, the conversion of the Make Work Pay Tax Credit, which the 
President passed before, which goes to -- went to 95 percent of the 
American people, converting that into an $120 billion one-year payroll tax 
relief act is, according to all the economic analyses, the single most 
effective tax cut you can do to support economic activity.  This will 
actually create a fair number of jobs.  I expect it to lower the 
unemployment rate and keep us going.

Thirdly, and one thing I haven’t seen much about in the reports, this 
agreement will really help America over the long term, because it continues 
the credits for manufacturing jobs related to energy coming in to America.  
And I’ll remind you, just in the last two years, there have been 30 
high-powered battery factories either opened or presently being built in 
America, taking us from 2 to 20 percent of the world’s share of that.  And 
we’re going to probably be at 40 percent by 2014.  This is a really 
important thing, bringing manufacturing back to America, because it’s a 
huge multiplier to create new jobs.

So in my opinion, this is a good bill.  And I hope that my fellow Democrats 
will support it.  I thank the Republican leaders for agreeing to include 
things that were important to the President.

There is never a perfect bipartisan bill in the eyes of a partisan.  And we 
all see this differently.  But I really believe this will be a significant 
net-plus for the country.  I also think that in general a lot of people are 
heaving a sigh of relief that there’s finally been some agreement on 
something.

But don't minimize the impact of the unemployment relief for working 
families, of the payroll tax relief, and of the continuation of the 
incentives to grow jobs, which will trigger more credit coming out of the 
banks.

Keep in mind, ultimately the long-term answer here is to get the $2 
trillion, which banks now have in cash reserves uncommitted to loans, out 
there in the economy again, the $1.8 trillion in corporate treasuries not 
now being invested out there in the economy again.  I think this is a 
net-plus.

And you know how I feel.  I think the people that benefit most should pay 
most.  That's always been my position -- not for class warfare reasons; for 
reasons of fairness in rebuilding the middle class in America.  But we have 
the distribution of authority we have now in the Congress and what we’re 
going to have in January, and I think this is a much, much better agreement 
than would be reached were we to wait until January.  And I think it will 
have a much more positive impact on the economy.

So for whatever it’s worth, that's what I think.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  That’s worth a lot.

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  I would like to say one other thing on another 
subject, just to be recorded on the record.  They don't need my support on 
this because we have some good Republican support, including the first 
President Bush.  I think this START agreement is very important to the 
future of our national security.

And it is not a radical agreement.  Boris Yeltsin and I agreed in principle 
on this same reduction, and there was no way in the wide world he could get 
it through the Russian Duma that existed at the time in his second term.  
So we didn't proceed because it couldn’t be ratified there.  I’m not sure 
the Senate would have ratified it then, but I think they will not with 
enough encouragement.

But the cooperation that we will get from the Russians, and the signal that 
will be sent to the world on nonproliferation, when all these other things 
are going on which threaten to increase nuclear proliferation, is very 
important.  One of the things you know is that when people fool with these 
weapons, they're expensive to build, expensive to maintain, and expensive 
to secure the material that goes into making the weapons.

This is something that is profoundly important.  This ought to be way 
beyond party.  They’ve worked very hard.  They’ve worked out, in my 
opinion, the details.  And I hope it will be ratified.

Q    Mr. President.

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Yes.

Q    First of all, a lot of Democrats on Capitol Hill say this is a bad 
deal; that President Obama could have gotten more.  What’s your message to 
them?  And then if I could also just ask -- well, go ahead.  You can answer 
--

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  First, my message is, I don't believe that's 
true because in January, they will be in the majority.  And this would 
dramatically reduce their incentive to extend unemployment benefits, to 
support the conversion of the Make Work Pay tax credits President Obama 
enacted into this payroll tax deduction, which as I said, I read all these 
economic studies.  Every single, unbiased, economic study says the best 
thing you can do if you’re going to take a tax-cut path to grow the economy 
is to give payroll tax relief.

I just got back from a trip to Asia with my foundation.  Hong Kong, super 
free-market place, had a stimulus.  Well, I guess we’re not supposed to use 
that word any more.  You know what they did?  They gave almost 10 percent 
of the people -- low-income, working people -- two months free rent in 
public housing.  They gave some money to the seniors.  But the most 
important thing they did was payroll tax relief for a year.

This is -- all the people who study this believe it’s the number one thing, 
so I don't believe they can get a better deal by waiting.

And I think the other thing that nobody is talking about, but I’m telling 
you it’s important, I live out there now, and I do a lot of this energy 
work, these tax credits have made us competitive again.

I didn't see a single story that credited Senator Reid’s election with the 
fact that with three weeks before the election, two new plants were 
announced in Nevada, which has the highest unemployment rate in the state, 
a thousand people making LED lights, a thousand people making wind turbines 
for that big wind farm in Texas, both companies owned by Chinese interests 
who said in no uncertain terms we’re here because you decided to compete 
with us for the future, and you gave us tax credits so we can pay higher 
labor costs because we save the transportation costs because of these 
credits.  I don't believe there is a better deal out there.

Q    And then as a follow-up, you mentioned the Republican Congress taking 
office in January.  What was your advice to President Obama today about how 
to deal with the Congress from the opposition party?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  I have a general rule which is that whatever he 
asked me about my advice, and whatever I say should become public only if 
he decides to make it public.  He can say whatever he wants, but --

Q    What do you think?

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Here’s what I’ll say, is I’ve been keeping the First Lady 
waiting for about half an hour, so I’m going to take off, but --

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  I don't want to make her mad, please go.

PRESIDENT OBAMA:  You’re in good hands, and Gibbs will call last question.

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Yes, help me.  Thank you.

Yes, go ahead.

Q    Mr. President, is there anything else that can be done in your opinion 
to loosen up the private credit markets that have been so tight?  I mean if 
people can’t get their hands on capital, how can they be the entrepreneurs 
that they want to be?  And this is something that the Republicans have 
fought all along.  What’s the next step?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  First of all, let me just run through the 
numbers again.  We’re not talking about high-risk stuff.  That's what the 
financial regulation bill tries to stop and charges the federal regulators 
with -- even if the Wall Street banks get -- we all know they have to be 
able to have more leverage than the traditional community banks tend to 
want up in the Dakotas or Arkansas or anyplace else.

But let’s start with the community banks.  If they loan money 
conservatively, they can loan $10 for every dollar they have in the bank.  
If they have $2 trillion uncommitted to loans, even though some of them may 
have a few mortgage issues unresolved, most of that mortgage debt has been 
off-loaded to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or has vanished into cyber-sphere 
with those securitized subprime mortgages.  I don't like the securities, 
but they happened.

So what I believe is going on is, first of all, the business community has 
not come forward as aggressively -- the small business community.  And this 
bill did preserve all those small business incentives that were enacted by 
the Congress in the previous two years.  There are like 16 different 
measures that give incentives for small businesses to take loans and loan 
guarantees and that kind of thing.

It appears to me that the community banks, at least, are somewhat uncertain 
about how the financial reform bill, which I supported, applies to them and 
what the costs of compliance might be.  You remember, the two big things 
that bill did was to require the federal regulators to monitor every month 
the big banks that caused the meltdown and to require them to set aside 
more capital.

And then it set up an orderly bankruptcy mechanism and banned future 
bailouts.  It said -- that bill actually says:  If this happens again, the 
shareholders and the executives have to eat it.

But there’s a whole lot of other things in credit cards and other matters 
that deal with it.  I think it is really, really important just to do an 
aggressive, 100 percent information drench.  I mean I would go so far as to 
do it bank by bank by bank by bank so that everybody knows exactly what 
they have to do, exactly what it costs and how quickly this can all be 
resolved.

And then I think it’s important to make sure that all these community banks 
and the people who might borrow from them understand where the small 
businesses of America are and where the manufacturers are with the various 
loan guarantees and credits and deductions that are available under these 
laws.

I still think -- you know, we too often assume that when a law passes, 
people know it passed, and they know what’s in it, and they know how it 
applies to them.  That may not be true in this case because there’s been so 
much activity and so much debate about it that was a debate that occurred 
in the context of a campaign rather than in the context of, “Let me tell 
you how this works, come here, let’s figure out how to get you a loan.”  So 
in my opinion, that's what needs to be done over the next two or three 
months.

The money is there to get this country out of this mess.  Two trillion 
dollars in the bank is $20 trillion in loans.  Now, there’s not that much 
guaranteed, but there’s plenty.

And I also believe the same thing with big companies.  We should analyze 
the situation of every company that at a minimum has got a $1 billion or 
more in cash and ask them to be honest with us about what would it take to 
get you back in the investment business.

These companies clearly have a preference for reinvesting in America, or 
they’d have put this money somewhere else already.  They have got -- it’s 
an amazing thing, $1.8 trillion in corporate treasuries, 6.2 percent of 
their capitalized value.  It’s been since 1964 that they had those kind of 
cash balances relative to their value.

So those are the things that I think we have to do now, so I can’t answer 
your question, except the bankers I talked to in Arkansas, in small places 
that I visit around where I live in New York, they all say, we know we need 
to ramp up the activity.  We got to get the green light about how we’re 
going to comply with these laws, and then we’ll go.

And you might be able to actually use your program to do it.  You might be 
able to bring some community bankers on, bring some regulars on, work 
through this stuff for people.  I just think they don't know yet.

Yes.

Q    Some of your fellow Democrats are saying that the President just 
didn't go in and fight hard enough for his core principles; that he caved 
in.  Politically, some say that he should be a one-term President.  Has he 
damaged not only his own political path, but has he let the party down?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  I don't believe so.  I think -- I just 
respectfully disagree about that.  I think that a lot of -- look, a lot of 
them are hurting now.  And I get it.  And you know I did 133 events for 
them.  I believe the Congress in the last two years did a far better job 
than the American people thought they did, at least the American people 
that voted in the midterms.

And I went to extraordinary efforts to try to explain what I thought had 
been done in the ways that I thought were most favorable to them.  But we 
had an election.  The results are what they are.  The numbers will only get 
worse in January in terms of negotiating.

And the President -- look, if we had 5 percent growth and unemployment was 
dropping like a rock, maybe you could have a so-called Mexican standoff, 
and you could say, it will be you, not me, the voters will hold responsible 
for raising taxes on middle-class people if they all go down next year.  
That is not the circumstance we face.

The United States has suffered a severe financial collapse.  These things 
take longer to get over than normal recessions.  We must first make sure we 
keep getting over it.  We don’t want to slip back down as Japan did.

And in order to make it happen over the long run, that’s why the question I 
was just asked is so good, is we have to go beyond direct investments, 
whether they’re stimulus projects or tax cuts, to private growth.  But to 
get there, we have to achieve a higher level of growth that triggers a 
confidence.  So I personally believe this is a good deal and the best he 
could have gotten under the circumstances. I just disagree.  I understand 
why -- people have a right to disagree with him.  But I disagree.

Yes, sir.

Q    Mr. President, you’ve made a number of very effective calls for the 
health care plan last year.  Have you been asked to make any calls to 
Democratic members on the tax deal? And, secondly, there are a lot of 
comparisons being made between the ’94 election and the 2010 election.  Do 
you think those are analogous?  Are they similar situations?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  It’s like all these things -- all of you will be 
under enormous pressure to develop a storyline.  And there are some 
parallels, and some that are different.  And you know, I’m -- I’ll let you 
do that.  I’m out of politics now, except to say that I care about my 
country and I want to get this economy going again.

And I believe that it is necessary for these parties to work together.  And 
I think, for example, the storyline is how well we work with the 
Republicans and all that.  But we’ve played political kabuki for a year, 
had two government shutdowns.  We can’t afford that now.  The only reason 
we could do that is if the deficit was already coming down in a time when 
interest rates were the problem, and the economy was coming out.  People 
just didn’t feel it yet in ’94.

We can’t afford that.  We have got to pull together.  And both sides are 
going to have to eat some things they don’t like, because we cannot afford 
to have the kind of impasse that we had last time over a long period of 
time.  We don’t want to slip back into a recession.  We got to keep this 
thing going and accelerate its pace.  I think this is the best available 
option.

Mark.

Q    -- any calls --

Q    Mr. President --

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Oh, I’m sorry, George, I have not.  But in 
fairness, as soon as the election was over, I took my foundation trip to 
Asia.  Then I came back -- I just got back from the West Coast, doing my 
annual trip out there.  There are people that support the work I do and my 
foundation.  I flew overnight to get here today.  And I have to leave again 
tonight.

If I were asked to, I would be happy to talk to anyone.  But I have not 
been asked.  But, in fairness, the President didn’t have a chance to.  He 
asked me to come down today, because he knew I was going to -- Hillary and 
I were appearing before the Brookings Saban Forum on the Middle East 
tonight.

Yes, Mark.

Q    Mr. President, I get the feeling that you’re happier to be here 
commenting and giving advice than governing.

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Oh, I had quite a good time governing. I am 
happy to be here, I suppose, when the bullets that are fired are unlikely 
to hit me, unless they’re just ricocheting.

No, I’m glad to be here because I think the President made a good decision 
and because I want my country to do well.  And after the ’94 election, I 
said the American people, in their infinite wisdom, have put us both in the 
same boat.  So we’re going to either row or sink.  And I want us to row.

Q    Can you give us a Haiti update?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  What?

Q    Can you give us a Haiti update?  I know you were there.

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Yes.  I had a long talk with the Prime Minister 
today.  And he, first of all, has done I think a remarkable job of being a 
loyal prime minister, but not being involved in the political imbroglio 
that’s going on, except to try to keep calm.

There was a decision made by the electoral council to review the vote in 
its entirety and to ask some outside observers to come in who are not only 
credible but knowledgeable.  And they will announce exactly how they 
propose to do that.  Today was a pretty calm day.  And they expect the 
weekend to be pretty calm.

We are going to have our commission meeting next week.  We may move it to 
the Dominican Republic.  But I think the best thing that we can do for the 
people of Haiti is to prove that Haitians on the commission, and the 
donors, are still committed to the long-term reconstruction process, 
whoever gets elected president.

The best thing they can do is -- everyone understands they had to carry out 
this election under enormously difficult circumstances.  Even getting the 
ID cards to everybody, as you know, proved difficult, because they were in 
those tented areas.

But what I can say is it was calmer today.  It appears they are going to 
try to have a recount procedure, which they hope will acquire more support 
from across the political spectrum.  And, meanwhile, we want the commission 
to keep working.

The World Bank just released about $70 billion of the $90 billion in 
projects we approved four months ago.  So that will go in.  We’ll be hiring 
more people immediately on those projects.  And we’re going to approve a 
lot more projects on the 14th.  And that’s my focus now.

Yes.

Q    Mr. President, I have to ask, do you think your appearance here today 
will help sway votes where they’re needed the most right now, among House 
Democrats?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  I have no idea.

Q    The reason I ask you that is because a lot of them are sort of antsy.  
And I know you never used the term back in your first term, but they’re 
antsy about the precedent of triangulation.  They’re still smarting over 
that.  And your appearance here today might not necessarily push them in 
the direction that the President wants them to be pushed.

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  That’s right, it may not.  But I would like to 
-- you know, I told President Obama, and I’ll tell you, you ought to go 
back and read a lecture that Franklin Roosevelt gave in 1926 before he was 
the Vice Presidential nominee, before he came down with polio, to his old 
alma mater [inaudible], in which he discussed the dilemma of the 
progressive movement in American politics.

I have an enormous amount of respect for the Democrats in the House.  And 
I’ve already told you I regret that so many of them lost.  I think some of 
our best people lost.  And I get where they’re coming from.

I can only tell you that my economic analysis is that given all the 
alternatives that I can imagine actually becoming law, this is the best 
economic result for America.  And I think it is enormous relief for America 
to think that both parties might vote for something, anything that they 
could both agree on.  And there is no way you can have a compromise without 
having something in the bill that you don’t like.

So I don’t know if I can influence anybody.  Heck, I couldn’t -- you know, 
I’d go some places and the people I campaigned for won.  In some places, 
the people I campaigned for lost.  I don’t know.  All I can tell you is 
what I think.

Q    Considering your credibility on the deficit, what do you think about 
concerns about the short-term deficit and the long-term deficit, and where 
our country is going?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  I’m happy to address that because I don’t think 
that -- I don’t think I did a good enough job in this election season, 
obviously, and I’m not sure we did.

The difference between now and when I became President, when we immediately 
went after the deficit, is quite simple.  When I became President, it was 
after 12 years in which the accumulative debt of the country had risen from 
$1 to $4 trillion.  It was the first period in American history when we had 
ever run structural deficits of any size.

And so we were having to pay too much for money.  It was costing us a lot 
to borrow money in the public sector, taking I think it was 14 cents of 
every dollar on the debt at the time.  And it was crowding out the 
opportunity of the private sector to borrow money, and raising their cost.  
And that’s sparked the recession that we had in the early ‘90s.

What happened this time was totally different.  This time there was a 
collapse of a financial system, which took interest rates to zero.  Now, I 
know there’s a lot of alarm now.  People say, oh, the interest rates went 
up on bond and in debt in the last couple of days.  And they said, oh, is 
it because of the increase in the -- increasing the deficit in the short 
term?  Is it because of the economy growing?  That doesn’t bother me.  We 
have to get out of deflation.  The biggest problem we have now is 
deflation.

So, look, I’m a Depression-era kid.  I don’t like deficits ever, really.  
We had four surpluses when I was President.  That’s what I like.  I like 
balanced budgets and surpluses; when you have growth.

But if I were in office now, I would have done what the President has done. 
 You have to first put the brakes on a contracting economy.  And then you 
have to somehow hold it together until growth resumes.  When growth 
resumes, you have to have interest rates higher than zero.

So you should actually -- now, if they get too high, you’ll be alarmed.  
But you should be encouraged that interest rates are beginning to creep up 
again.  It’s the sign of a healthy economy, and the idea that there would 
be competition for money.

I do believe that we’ll have to take aggressive and disciplined action to 
eliminate the structural deficit again.  And I think it was a mistake to go 
back to structural deficits.  I think if America were out of debt on a 
normal basis, and we didn’t have to borrow money from our major trading 
partners, we would have more economic freedom and economic security.  So I 
want to see what comes out of this, but I expect to support some very 
vigorous actions to eliminate the deficit and get us back to balance.

Yes, one more.  I’ve got to get out of here.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Beyond this pending tax deal, there are 
enormous issues of importance that are unfinished, from education to 
energy, the deficit.  And this is still a very dividing country.  Do you 
think the American people want a President to compromise with the opposing 
party?  And is that a message that you think Democrats are going to have to 
accept?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Yes, but I also believe that it’s a message 
Republicans are going to have to accept.  Keep in mind that many of the -- 
the really interesting thing was -- is that a lot of the hardcore 
conservatives think the Republicans gave too much.  Read Charles 
Krauthammer’s column in the Post today.  He’s a brilliant man, and he 
pointed out that they got the divisive tax cuts, but most of them were 
targeted to middle-class working people -- that's what the payroll tax cut 
is -- that the unemployment benefits were extended, which some of them did 
not want to do, and that the American people, by two to one, support them 
both.

So there are some conservatives who don't believe in the economic theory I 
just advanced to you; who believe that the President and Democrats got more 
out of this than the Republicans did.

So I think that's healthy, too, because everybody has got to give a little.

Yes, I think the one thing that always happens when you have divided 
government is that people no longer see principled compromise as weakness.  
This system was set up to promote principled compromise.  It is an ethical 
thing to do.  In a democracy where no one is a dictator, we would all be at 
each other’s throats all the time, and we would be in a state of constant 
paralysis if once power is divided, there is no compromise.

Q    What’s the political fight worth having?  What would you tell 
Democrats the political fight worth having is right now?

FORMER PRESIDENT CLINTON:  Well, I think it’s worth fighting against the 
repeal of the health care law.  I would be in favor -- and I can give you 
four or five things off the top of my head I think should be done to 
improve it.

I think it’s worth a ferocious fight to avoid repeal of the student loan 
reform, which I believe is the best chance we’ve got to take America back 
to number one from number nine in the percent of adults in the world with 
four-year college degrees.

I think it’s worth fighting against repeal of the financial reform and the 
assurance it gives us that we won’t have another meltdown, and if we do, 
there won’t be another bailout.

I think there are a lot of fights worth having, and I presume the 
Republicans want to fight those, too, since they ran on that.  And they’ll 
be able to have these differences.  But this holds the promise that after 
the fights are over, we’ll be able to find principled compromises on those 
areas, as well.  And to me that's worth doing.

But first, the economy first.  We can’t go back into a recession.  We have 
to keep crawling out of this mess we’re in.  And this is a good first step, 
both on the substantive merits and on the psychological relief it gives to 
the American people in general, and the small business people and community 
bankers and others who can start doing things that will help get better in 
particular.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.