 

 

Barack Obama

Commencement Address at the University of Michigan

delivered 01 May 2010

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

It is great to be here in The Big House
 -- and so may I say, “Go 
Blue!” I thought I’d go for the cheap applause line to start things off.

Good afternoon, President Coleman, the Board of Trustees, to faculty, 
parents, family and friends of the class of 2010.  Congratulations on your 
graduation, and thank you for allowing me the honor of being a part of it.  
Let me acknowledge your wonderful governor, Jennifer Granholm; your mayor, 
John Hieftje; and all the members of Congress who are here today.

It is a privilege to be with you on this happy occasion, and, you know, 
it’s nice to spend a little time outside of Washington. Now, don’t get me 
wrong -- Washington is a beautiful city.  It’s very nice living above the 
store; you can’t beat the commute.  It’s just sometimes all you hear in 
Washington is the clamor of politics.  And all that noise can drown out the 
voices of the people who sent you there.  So when I took office, I decided 
that each night I would read 10 letters out of the tens of thousands that 
are sent to us by ordinary Americans every day -- this is my modest effort 
to remind myself of why I ran in the first place.

Some of these letters tell stories of heartache and struggle.  Some express 
gratitude, some express anger.  I'd say a good solid third call me an idiot 
-- which is how I know that I’m getting a good, representative sample.  
Some of the letters make you think -- like the one that I received last 
month from a kindergarten class in Virginia.

Now, the teacher of this class instructed the students to ask me any 
question they wanted.  So one asked, “How do you do your job?”  Another 
asked, “Do you work a lot?”  Somebody wanted to know if I wear a black 
jacket or if I have a beard -- so clearly they were getting me mixed up 
with the other tall guy from Illinois. And one of my favorites was from a 
kid who wanted to know if I lived next to a volcano.  I'm still trying to 
piece the thought process on this one.  Loved this letter.

But it was the last question from the last student in the letter that gave 
me pause.  The student asked, “Are people being nice?”  Are people being 
nice?

Well, if you turn on the news today, or yesterday, or a week ago, or a 
month ago -- particularly one of the cable channels -- you can see why even 
a kindergartener would ask this question.  We’ve got politicians calling 
each other all sorts of unflattering names.  Pundits and talking heads 
shout at each other.  The media tends to play up every hint of conflict, 
because it makes for a sexier story -- which means anyone interested in 
getting coverage feels compelled to make their arguments as outrageous and 
as incendiary as possible.

Now, some of this contentiousness can be attributed to the incredibly 
difficult moment in which we find ourselves as a nation.  The fact is, when 
you leave here today you will search for work in an economy that is still 
emerging from the worst crisis since the Great Depression.  You live in a 
century where the speed with which jobs and industries move across the 
globe is forcing America to compete like never before.  You will raise your 
children at a time when threats like terrorism and climate change aren’t 
confined within the borders of any one country.  And as our world grows 
smaller and more connected, you will live and work with more people who 
don’t look like you or think like you or come from where you do.

I really enjoyed Alex’s remarks because that's a lot of change.  And all 
these changes, all these challenges, inevitably cause some tension in the 
body politic.  They make people worry about the future and sometimes they 
get people riled up.

But I think it’s important that we maintain some historic perspective.  
Since the days of our founding, American politics has never been a 
particularly nice business.  It’s always been a little less gentile during 
times of great change.  A newspaper of the opposing party once 
editorialized that if Thomas Jefferson were elected, “Murder, robbery, 
rape, adultery, and incest will be openly taught and practiced.”  Not 
subtle.  Opponents of Andrew Jackson often referred to his mother as a 
“common prostitute,” which seems a little over the top.  Presidents from 
Teddy Roosevelt to Lyndon Johnson have been accused of promoting socialism, 
or worse.  And we’ve had arguments between politicians that have been 
settled with actual duels.  There was even a caning once on the floor of 
the United States Senate -- which I’m happy to say didn’t happen while I 
was there. It was a few years before.

The point is, politics has never been for the thin-skinned or the 
faint-of-heart, and if you enter the arena, you should expect to get 
roughed up.  Moreover, democracy in a nation of more than 300 million 
people is inherently difficult.  It’s always been noisy and messy, 
contentious, complicated.  We’ve been fighting about the proper size and 
role of government since the day the Framers gathered in Philadelphia.  
We’ve battled over the meaning of individual freedom and equality since the 
Bill of Rights was drafted.  As our economy has shifted emphasis from 
agriculture to industry, to information, to technology, we have argued and 
struggled at each and every juncture over the best way to ensure that all 
of our citizens have a shot at opportunity.

So before we get too depressed about the current state of our politics, 
let’s remember our history.  The great debates of the past all stirred 
great passions.  They all made somebody angry, and at least once led to a 
terrible war.  What is amazing is that despite all the conflict, despite 
all its flaws and its frustrations, our experiment in democracy has worked 
better than any form of government on Earth.

On the last day of the Constitutional Convention, Benjamin Franklin was 
famously asked, “Well, Doctor, what have we got -- a republic or a 
monarchy?”  And Franklin gave an answer that’s been quoted for ages:  He 
said, “A republic, if you can keep it.”  If you can keep it.

Well, for more than 200 years, we have kept it.  Through revolution and 
civil war, our democracy has survived.  Through depression and world war, 
it has prevailed.  Through periods of great social and economic unrest, 
from civil rights to women’s rights, it has allowed us slowly, sometimes 
painfully, to move towards a more perfect union
 .

And so now, class of 2010, the question for your generation is this:  How 
will you keep our democracy going?  At a moment when our challenges seem so 
big and our politics seem so small, how will you keep our democracy alive 
and vibrant; how will you keep it well in this century?

I’m not here to offer some grand theory or detailed policy prescription.  
But let me offer a few brief reflections based on my own experiences and 
the experiences of our country over the last two centuries.

First of all, American democracy has thrived because we have recognized the 
need for a government that, while limited, can still help us adapt to a 
changing world.  On the fourth panel of the Jefferson Memorial is a quote I 
remember reading to my daughters during our first visit there.  It says, “I 
am not an advocate for frequent changes in laws and constitutions, 
but...with the change of circumstances, institutions must advance also to 
keep pace with the times.”

The democracy designed by Jefferson and the other founders was never 
intended to solve every problem with a new law or a new program.  Having 
thrown off the tyranny of the British Empire, the first Americans were 
understandably skeptical of government. And ever since we’ve held fast to 
the belief that government doesn’t have all the answers, and we have 
cherished and fiercely defended our individual freedom.  That’s a strand of 
our nation’s DNA.

But the other strand is the belief that there are some things we can only 
do together, as one nation -- and that our government must keep pace with 
the times.  When America expanded from a few colonies to an entire 
continent, and we needed a way to reach the Pacific, our government helped 
build the railroads. When we transitioned from an economy based on farms to 
one based on factories, and workers needed new skills and training, our 
nation set up a system of public high schools.  When the markets crashed 
during the Depression and people lost their life savings, our government 
put in place a set of rules and safeguards to make sure that such a crisis 
never happened again, and then put a safety net in place to make sure that 
our elders would never be impoverished the way they had been.  And because 
our markets and financial systems have evolved since then, we’re now 
putting in place new rules and safeguards to protect the American people.

Now, this notion -- this notion, class, hasn’t always been partisan.  It 
was the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, who said the role of 
government is to do for the people what they cannot do better for 
themselves.  And he’d go on to begin that first intercontinental railroad 
and set up the first land-grant colleges.  It was another Republican, Teddy 
Roosevelt, who said, “the object of government is the welfare of the 
people.”  And he’s remembered for using the power of government to break up 
monopolies, and establish our National Park system.  Democrat Lyndon 
Johnson announced the Great Society during a commencement here at Michigan
 , but it was the Republican President before 
him, Dwight Eisenhower, who launched the massive government undertaking 
known as the Interstate Highway System.

Of course, there have always been those who’ve opposed such efforts.  They 
argue government intervention is usually inefficient; that it restricts 
individual freedom and dampens individual initiative.  And in certain 
instances, that’s been true.  For many years, we had a welfare system that 
too often discouraged people from taking responsibility for their own 
upward mobility.  At times, we’ve neglected the role of parents, rather 
than government, in cultivating a child’s education.  And sometimes 
regulation fails, and sometimes their benefits don’t justify their costs.

But what troubles me is when I hear people say that all of government is 
inherently bad.  One of my favorite signs during the health care debate was 
somebody who said, “Keep Your Government Hands Out Of My Medicare” -- which 
is essentially saying “Keep Government Out Of My Government-Run Health Care 
Plan.”

When our government is spoken of as some menacing, threatening foreign 
entity, it ignores the fact that in our democracy, government is us.  We, 
the people -- We, the people, hold in our hands the power to choose our 
leaders and change our laws, and shape our own destiny.

Government is the police officers who are protecting our communities, and 
the servicemen and women who are defending us abroad.  Government is the 
roads you drove in on and the speed limits that kept you safe.  Government 
is what ensures that mines adhere to safety standards and that oil spills 
are cleaned up by the companies that caused them.  Government is this 
extraordinary public university -- a place that’s doing lifesaving 
research, and catalyzing economic growth, and graduating students who will 
change the world around them in ways big and small.

The truth is, the debate we’ve had for decades now between more government 
and less government, it doesn’t really fit the times in which we live.  We 
know that too much government can stifle competition and deprive us of 
choice and burden us with debt.  But we’ve also clearly seen the dangers of 
too little government -- like when a lack of accountability on Wall Street 
nearly leads to the collapse of our entire economy.

So, class of 2010, what we should be asking is not whether we need “big 
government” or a “small government,” but how we can create a smarter and 
better government.  Because in an era of iPods and Tivo, where we have more 
choices than ever before -- even though I can't really work a lot of these 
things  -- but I have 23-year-olds who do it for me -- government shouldn’t 
try to dictate your lives.  But it should give you the tools you need to 
succeed.  Government shouldn’t try to guarantee results, but it should 
guarantee a shot at opportunity for every American who’s willing to work 
hard.

So -- So, yes, we can and should debate the role of government in our 
lives.  But remember, as you are asked to meet the challenges of our time, 
remember that the ability for us to adapt our government to the needs of 
the age has helped make our democracy work since its inception.

Now, the second way to keep our democracy healthy is to maintain a basic 
level of civility in our public debate. These arguments we’re having over 
government and health care and war and taxes -- these are serious 
arguments.  They should arouse people’s passions, and it’s important for 
everybody to join in the debate, with all the vigor that the maintenance of 
a free people requires.

But we can’t expect to solve our problems if all we do is tear each other 
down.  You can disagree with a certain policy without demonizing the person 
who espouses it.  You can question somebody’s views and their judgment 
without questioning their motives or their patriotism.  Throwing around 
phrases like “socialists” and “Soviet-style takeover” and “fascist” and 
“right-wing nut” -- that may grab headlines, but it also has the effect of 
comparing our government, our political opponents, to authoritarian, even 
murderous regimes.

Now, we’ve seen this kind of politics in the past.  It’s been practiced by 
both fringes of the ideological spectrum, by the left and the right, since 
our nation’s birth.  But it’s starting to creep into the center of our 
discourse.  And the problem with it is not the hurt feelings or the bruised 
egos of the public officials who are criticized.  Remember, they signed up 
for it.  Michelle always reminds me of that. The problem is that this kind 
of vilification and over-the-top rhetoric closes the door to the 
possibility of compromise.  It undermines democratic deliberation.  It 
prevents learning -- since, after all, why should we listen to a “fascist,” 
or a “socialist,” or a “right-wing nut,” or a left-wing nut”?

It makes it nearly impossible for people who have legitimate but bridgeable 
differences to sit down at the same table and hash things out.  It robs us 
of a rational and serious debate, the one we need to have about the very 
real and very big challenges facing this nation.  It coarsens our culture, 
and at its worst, it can send signals to the most extreme elements of our 
society that perhaps violence is a justifiable response.

So what do we do?  As I found out after a year in the White House, changing 
this type of politics is not easy.  And part of what civility requires is 
that we recall the simple lesson most of us learned from our parents:  
Treat others as you would like to be treated, with courtesy and respect.  
But civility in this age also requires something more than just asking if 
we can’t just all get along.

Today’s 24/7 echo-chamber amplifies the most inflammatory soundbites louder 
and faster than ever before.  And it’s also, however, given us 
unprecedented choice.  Whereas most Americans used to get their news from 
the same three networks over dinner, or a few influential papers on Sunday 
morning, we now have the option to get our information from any number of 
blogs or websites or cable news shows.  And this can have both a good and 
bad development for democracy.  For if we choose only to expose ourselves 
to opinions and viewpoints that are in line with our own, studies suggest 
that we become more polarized, more set in our ways.  That will only 
reinforce and even deepen the political divides in this country.

But if we choose to actively seek out information that challenges our 
assumptions and our beliefs, perhaps we can begin to understand where the 
people who disagree with us are coming from.

Now, this requires us to agree on a certain set of facts to debate from.  
That’s why we need a vibrant and thriving news business that is separate 
from opinion makers and talking heads. That’s why we need an educated 
citizenry that values hard evidence and not just assertion.  As Senator 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan famously once said, “Everybody is entitled to his 
own opinion, but not his own facts.”

Still, if you’re somebody who only reads the editorial page of The New York 
Times, try glancing at the [Opinion] page of The Wall Street Journal
 once in a 
while.  If you’re a fan of Glenn Beck or Rush Limbaugh, try reading a few 
columns on the Huffington Post website  .  
It may make your blood boil
 ; your mind may 
not be changed.  But the practice of listening to opposing views is 
essential for effective citizenship. It is essential for our democracy.

And so, too, is the practice of engaging in different experiences with 
different kinds of people.  I look out at this class and I realize for four 
years at Michigan you have been exposed to diverse thinkers and scholars, 
professors and students.  Don’t narrow that broad intellectual exposure 
just because you’re leaving here.  Instead, seek to expand it.  If you grew 
up in a big city, spend some time with somebody who grew up in a rural 
town.  If you find yourself only hanging around with people of your own 
race or ethnicity or religion, include people in your circle who have 
different backgrounds and life experiences.  You’ll learn what it’s like to 
walk in somebody else’s shoes, and in the process, you will help to make 
this democracy work.

Which brings me to the last ingredient in a functioning democracy, one 
that's perhaps most basic -- and it’s already been mentioned -- and that is 
participation.

Class of 2010, I understand that one effect of today’s poisonous political 
climate is to push people away from participation in public life.  If all 
you see when you turn on the TV is name-calling, if all you hear about is 
how special interest lobbying and partisanship prevented Washington from 
getting something done, you might think to yourself, “What’s the point of 
getting involved?”

Here’s the point.  When we don’t pay close attention to the decisions made 
by our leaders, when we fail to educate ourselves about the major issues of 
the day, when we choose not to make our voices and opinions heard, that’s 
when democracy breaks down.  That’s when power is abused.  That’s when the 
most extreme voices in our society fill the void that we leave.  That’s 
when powerful interests and their lobbyists are most able to buy access and 
influence in the corridors of power -- because none of us are there to 
speak up and stop them.

Participation in public life doesn’t mean that you all have to run for 
public office -- though we could certainly use some fresh faces in 
Washington. But it does mean that you should pay attention and contribute 
in any way that you can.  Stay informed.  Write letters, or make phone 
calls on behalf of an issue you care about.  If electoral politics isn’t 
your thing, continue the tradition so many of you started here at Michigan 
and find a way to serve your community and your country -- an act that will 
help you stay connected to your fellow citizens and improve the lives of 
those around you.

It was 50 years ago that a young candidate for president came here to 
Michigan and delivered a speech that inspired one of the most successful 
service projects in American history.  And as John F. Kennedy described the 
ideals behind what would become the Peace Corps
 , he issued a challenge to the 
students who had assembled in Ann Arbor on that October night:  “on your 
willingness to contribute part of your life to this country,” he said, will 
depend the answer whether a free society can compete. I think it can,” he 
said.

This democracy we have is a precious thing.  For all the arguments and all 
the doubts and all the cynicism that’s out there today, we should never 
forget that as Americans, we enjoy more freedoms and opportunities than 
citizens in any other nation on Earth.  We are free to speak our mind and 
worship as we please.  We are free to choose our leaders, and criticize 
them if they let us down.  We have the chance to get an education, and work 
hard, and give our children a better life.

None of this came easy.  None of this was preordained.  The men and women 
who sat in your chairs 10 years ago and 50 years ago and 100 years ago -- 
they made America possible through their toil and their endurance and their 
imagination and their faith.  Their success, and America’s success, was 
never a given.  And there is no guarantee that the graduates who will sit 
in these same seats 10 years from now, or 50 years from now, or 100 years 
from now, will enjoy the same freedoms and opportunities that you do.  You, 
too, will have to strive.  You, too, will have to push the boundaries of 
what seems possible.  For the truth is, our nation’s destiny has never been 
certain.

What is certain -- what has always been certain -- is the ability to shape 
that destiny.  That is what makes us different. That is what sets us apart. 
 That is what makes us Americans -- our ability at the end of the day to 
look past all of our differences and all of our disagreements and still 
forge a common future.  That task is now in your hands, as is the answer to 
the question posed at this university half a century ago about whether a 
free society can still compete.

If you are willing, as past generations were willing, to contribute part of 
your life to the life of this country, then I, like President Kennedy, 
believe we can.  Because I believe in you.

Congratulations on your graduation, 2010.  May God bless you, and may God 
bless the United States of America.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present.
American Rhetoric.