 

 

Barack Obama

Address to Students at the University of Indonesia

delivered 10 November 2010, Depok, Indonesia

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Selamat pagi. [Good morning.] It is wonderful to be here at the University 
of Indonesia.  To the faculty and the staff and the students, and to Dr. 
Gumilar Rusliwa Somantri, thank you so much for your hospitality.

Assalamualaikum dan salam sejahtera. [Peace be upon you and may God be with 
you.] Thank you for this wonderful welcome.  Thank you to the people of 
Jakarta and thank you to the people of Indonesia.

Pulang kampung nih. [Back to/in my hometown].  I am so glad that I made it 
back to Indonesia and that Michelle was able to join me.  We had a couple 
of false starts this year, but I was determined to visit a country that’s 
meant so much to me.  And unfortunately, this visit is too short, but I 
look forward to coming back a year from now when Indonesia hosts the East 
Asia Summit.

Before I go any further, I want to say that our thoughts and prayers are 
with all of those Indonesians who are affected by the recent tsunami and 
the volcanic eruptions -- particularly those who’ve lost loved ones, and 
those who’ve been displaced.  And I want you all to know that as always, 
the United States stands with Indonesia in responding to natural disasters, 
and we are pleased to be able to help as needed.  As neighbors help 
neighbors and families take in the displaced, I know that the strength and 
the resilience of the Indonesian people will pull you through once more.

Let me begin with a simple statement:  Indonesia bagian dari didi saya.  I 
first came to this country when my mother married an Indonesian named Lolo 
Soetoro.  And as a young boy I was -- as a young boy I was coming to a 
different world.  But the people of Indonesia quickly made me feel at home.
 
Jakarta -- now, Jakarta looked very different in those days.  The city was 
filled with buildings that were no more than a few stories tall.  This was 
back in 1967, ‘68 -- most of you weren’t born yet.  The Hotel Indonesia was 
one of the few high rises, and there was just one big department store 
called Sarinah.  That was it. Betchaks and bemos, that’s how you got 
around.  They outnumbered automobiles in those days.  And you didn’t have 
all the big highways that you have today.  Most of them gave way to unpaved 
roads and the kampongs.
 
So we moved to Menteng Dalam, where -- hey, some folks from Menteng Dalam 
right here.  And we lived in a small house.  We had a mango tree out front. 
 And I learned to love Indonesia while flying kites and running along the 
paddy fields and catching dragonflies, buying satay and baso from the 
street vendors. I still remember the call of the vendors.  Satay!  I 
remember that.  Baso!  But most of all, I remember the people -- the old 
men and women who welcomed us with smiles; the children who made a foreign 
child feel like a neighbor and a friend; and the teachers who helped me 
learn about this country.
 
Because Indonesia is made up of thousands of islands, and hundreds of 
languages, and people from scores of regions and ethnic groups, my time 
here helped me appreciate the common humanity of all people.  And while my 
stepfather, like most Indonesians, was raised a Muslim, he firmly believed 
that all religions were worthy of respect.  And in this way -- in this way 
he reflected the spirit of religious tolerance that is enshrined in 
Indonesia’s Constitution, and that remains one of this country’s defining 
and inspiring characteristics.
 
Now, I stayed here for four years -- a time that helped shape my childhood; 
a time that saw the birth of my wonderful sister, Maya; a time that made 
such an impression on my mother that she kept returning to Indonesia over 
the next 20 years to live and to work and to travel -- and to pursue her 
passion of promoting opportunity in Indonesia’s villages, especially 
opportunity for women and for girls.  And I was so honored -- I was so 
honored when President Yudhoyono last night at the state dinner presented 
an award on behalf of my mother, recognizing the work that she did.  And 
she would have been so proud, because my mother held Indonesia and its 
people very close to her heart for her entire life.

So much has changed in the four decades since I boarded a plane to move 
back to Hawaii.  If you asked me -- or any of my schoolmates who knew me 
back then -- I don’t think any of us could have anticipated that one day I 
would come back to Jakarta as the President of the United States.  And few 
could have anticipated the remarkable story of Indonesia over these last 
four decades.
 
The Jakarta that I once knew has grown into a teeming city of nearly 10 
million, with skyscrapers that dwarf the Hotel Indonesia, and thriving 
centers of culture and of commerce.  While my Indonesian friends and I used 
to run in fields with water buffalo and goats -- a new generation of 
Indonesians is among the most wired in the world -- connected through cell 
phones and social networks. And while Indonesia as a young nation focused 
inward, a growing Indonesia now plays a key role in the Asia Pacific and in 
the global economy. 
 
Now, this change also extends to politics.  When my stepfather was a boy, 
he watched his own father and older brother leave home to fight and die in 
the struggle for Indonesian independence.  And I’m happy to be here on 
Heroes Day to honor the memory of so many Indonesians who have sacrificed 
on behalf of this great country.
 
When I moved to Jakarta, it was 1967, and it was a time that had followed 
great suffering and conflict in parts of this country.  And even though my 
stepfather had served in the Army, the violence and killing during that 
time of political upheaval was largely unknown to me because it was 
unspoken by my Indonesian family and friends.  In my household, like so 
many others across Indonesia, the memories of that time were an invisible 
presence.  Indonesians had their independence, but oftentimes they were 
afraid to speak their minds about issues.
 
In the years since then, Indonesia has charted its own course through an 
extraordinary democratic transformation -- from the rule of an iron fist to 
the rule of the people.  In recent years, the world has watched with hope 
and admiration as Indonesians embraced the peaceful transfer of power and 
the direct election of leaders.  And just as your democracy is symbolized 
by your elected President and legislature, your democracy is sustained and 
fortified by its checks and balances:  a dynamic civil society; political 
parties and unions; a vibrant media and engaged citizens who have ensured 
that -- in Indonesia -- there will be no turning back from democracy.
 
But even as this land of my youth has changed in so many ways, those things 
that I learned to love about Indonesia -- that spirit of tolerance that is 
written into your Constitution; symbolized in mosques and churches and 
temples standing alongside each other; that spirit that’s embodied in your 
people -- that still lives on.  Bhinneka Tunggal Ika -- unity in diversity. 
This is the foundation of Indonesia’s example to the world, and this is why 
Indonesia will play such an important part in the 21st century.
 
So today, I return to Indonesia as a friend, but also as a President who 
seeks a deep and enduring partnership between our two countries.  Because 
as vast and diverse countries; as neighbors on either side of the Pacific; 
and above all as democracies -- the United States and Indonesia are bound 
together by shared interests and shared values.
 
Yesterday, President Yudhoyono and I announced a new Comprehensive 
Partnership between the United States and Indonesia.  We are increasing 
ties between our governments in many different areas, and -- just as 
importantly -- we are increasing ties among our people.  This is a 
partnership of equals, grounded in mutual interests and mutual respect.
 
So with the rest of my time today, I’d like to talk about why the story I 
just told -- the story of Indonesia since the days when I lived here -- is 
so important to the United States and to the world.  I will focus on three 
areas that are closely related, and fundamental to human progress -- 
development, democracy and religious faith.
 
First, the friendship between the United States and Indonesia can advance 
our mutual interest in development.
 
When I moved to Indonesia, it would have been hard to imagine a future in 
which the prosperity of families in Chicago and Jakarta would be connected. 
 But our economies are now global, and Indonesians have experienced both 
the promise and the perils of globalization:  from the shock of the Asian 
financial crisis in the ‘90s, to the millions lifted out of poverty because 
of increased trade and commerce.  What that means -- and what we learned in 
the recent economic crisis -- is that we have a stake in each other’s 
success.
 
America has a stake in Indonesia growing and developing, with prosperity 
that is broadly shared among the Indonesian people -- because a rising 
middle class here in Indonesia means new markets for our goods, just as 
America is a market for goods coming from Indonesia.  So we are investing 
more in Indonesia, and our exports have grown by nearly 50 percent, and we 
are opening doors for Americans and Indonesians to do business with one 
another.

America has a stake in an Indonesia that plays its rightful role in shaping 
the global economy.  Gone are the days when seven or eight countries would 
come together to determine the direction of global markets.  That’s why the 
G20  is now the center of international 
economic cooperation, so that emerging economies like Indonesia have a 
greater voice and also bear greater responsibility for guiding the global 
economy.  And through its leadership of the G20’s anti-corruption group, 
Indonesia should lead on the world stage and by example in embracing 
transparency and accountability.
 
America has a stake in an Indonesia that pursues sustainable development, 
because the way we grow will determine the quality of our lives and the 
health of our planet.  And that’s why we’re developing clean energy 
technologies that can power industry and preserve Indonesia’s precious 
natural resources -- and America welcomes your country’s strong leadership 
in the global effort to combat climate change.
 
Above all, America has a stake in the success of the Indonesian people.  
Underneath the headlines of the day, we must build bridges between our 
people, because our future security and prosperity is shared.  And that is 
exactly what we’re doing -- by increasing collaboration among our 
scientists and researchers, and by working together to foster 
entrepreneurship.  And I’m especially pleased that we have committed to 
double the number of American and Indonesian students studying in our 
respective countries.  We want more Indonesian students in American 
schools, and we want more American students to come study in this country.  
We want to forge new ties and greater understanding between young people in 
this young century.
 
These are the issues that really matter in our daily lives.  Development, 
after all, is not simply about growth rates and numbers on a balance sheet. 
 It’s about whether a child can learn the skills they need to make it in a 
changing world.  It’s about whether a good idea is allowed to grow into a 
business, and not suffocated by corruption.  It’s about whether those 
forces that have transformed the Jakarta I once knew -- technology and 
trade and the flow of people and goods -- can translate into a better life 
for all Indonesians, for all human beings, a life marked by dignity and 
opportunity.
 
Now, this kind of development is inseparable from the role of democracy.
     
Today, we sometimes hear that democracy stands in the way of economic 
progress.  This is not a new argument.  Particularly in times of change and 
economic uncertainty, some will say that it is easier to take a shortcut to 
development by trading away the right of human beings for the power of the 
state.  But that’s not what I saw on my trip to India, and that is not what 
I see here in Indonesia.  Your achievements demonstrate that democracy and 
development reinforce one another. 
 
Like any democracy, you have known setbacks along the way.  America is no 
different.  Our own Constitution spoke of the effort to forge a “more 
perfect union  ,” and that is a journey 
that we’ve traveled ever since.  We’ve endured civil war and we struggled 
to extend equal rights to all of our citizens.  But it is precisely this 
effort that has allowed us to become stronger and more prosperous, while 
also becoming a more just and a more free society.
 
Like other countries that emerged from colonial rule in the last century, 
Indonesia struggled and sacrificed for the right to determine your destiny. 
 That is what Heroes Day is all about -- an Indonesia that belongs to 
Indonesians.  But you also ultimately decided that freedom cannot mean 
replacing the strong hand of a colonizer with a strongman of your own.
 
Of course, democracy is messy.  Not everyone likes the results of every 
election.  You go through your ups and downs.  But the journey is 
worthwhile, and it goes beyond casting a ballot.  It takes strong 
institutions to check the power -- the concentration of power.  It takes 
open markets to allow individuals to thrive.  It takes a free press and an 
independent justice system to root out abuses and excess, and to insist on 
accountability.  It takes open society and active citizens to reject 
inequality and injustice.
 
These are the forces that will propel Indonesia forward.  And it will 
require a refusal to tolerate the corruption that stands in the way of 
opportunity; a commitment to transparency that gives every Indonesian a 
stake in their government; and a belief that the freedom of Indonesians -- 
that Indonesians have fought for is what holds this great nation together.
 
That is the message of the Indonesians who have advanced this democratic 
story -- from those who fought in the Battle of Surabaya
 55 years ago today; to 
the students who marched peacefully for democracy in the 1990s; to leaders 
who have embraced the peaceful transition of power in this young century.  
Because ultimately, it will be the rights of citizens that will stitch 
together this remarkable Nusantara that stretches from Sabang to Merauke, 
an insistence -- an insistence that every child born in this country should 
be treated equally, whether they come from Java or Aceh; from Bali or 
Papua.  That all Indonesians have equal rights.
 
That effort extends to the example that Indonesia is now setting abroad.  
Indonesia took the initiative to establish the Bali Democracy Forum, an 
open forum for countries to share their experiences and best practices in 
fostering democracy.  Indonesia has also been at the forefront of pushing 
for more attention to human rights within ASEAN
 .  The nations of Southeast Asia must 
have the right to determine their own destiny, and the United States will 
strongly support that right.  But the people of Southeast Asia must have 
the right to determine their own destiny as well.  And that’s why we 
condemned elections in Burma recently that were neither free nor fair.  
That is why we are supporting your vibrant civil society in working with 
counterparts across this region.  Because there’s no reason why respect for 
human rights should stop at the border of any country.
 
Hand in hand, that is what development and democracy are about -- the 
notion that certain values are universal.  Prosperity without freedom is 
just another form of poverty.  Because there are aspirations that human 
beings share -- the liberty of knowing that your leader is accountable to 
you, and that you won’t be locked up for disagreeing with them; the 
opportunity to get an education and to be able to work with dignity; the 
freedom to practice your faith without fear or restriction.  Those are 
universal values that must be observed everywhere.

Now, religion is the final topic that I want to address today, and -- like 
democracy and development -- it is fundamental to the Indonesian story.
 
Like the other Asian nations that I’m visiting on this trip, Indonesia is 
steeped in spirituality -- a place where people worship God in many 
different ways.  Along with this rich diversity, it is also home to the 
world’s largest Muslim population -- a truth I came to know as a boy when I 
heard the call to prayer across Jakarta.
 
Just as individuals are not defined solely by their faith, Indonesia is 
defined by more than its Muslim population.  But we also know that 
relations between the United States and Muslim communities have frayed over 
many years.  As President, I have made it a priority to begin to repair 
these relations.  As part of that effort, I went to Cairo last June, and I 
called for a new beginning  between the 
United States and Muslims around the world -- one that creates a path for 
us to move beyond our differences.
 
I said then, and I will repeat now, that no single speech can eradicate 
years of mistrust.  But I believed then, and I believe today, that we do 
have a choice.  We can choose to be defined by our differences, and give in 
to a future of suspicion and mistrust.  Or we can choose to do the hard 
work of forging common ground, and commit ourselves to the steady pursuit 
of progress.  And I can promise you -- no matter what setbacks may come, 
the United States is committed to human progress.  That is who we are.  
That is what we’ve done.  And that is what we will do.
 
Now, we know well the issues that have caused tensions for many years -- 
and these are issues that I addressed in Cairo.  In the 17 months that have 
passed since that speech, we have made some progress, but we have much more 
work to do.
 
Innocent civilians in America, in Indonesia and across the world are still 
targeted by violent extremism.  I made clear that America is not, and never 
will be, at war with Islam.  Instead, all of us must work together to 
defeat al Qaeda and its affiliates, who have no claim to be leaders of any 
religion -- certainly not a great, world religion like Islam.  But those 
who want to build must not cede ground to terrorists who seek to destroy.  
And this is not a task for America alone.  Indeed, here in Indonesia, 
you’ve made progress in rooting out extremists and combating such violence.
 
In Afghanistan, we continue to work with a coalition of nations to build 
the capacity of the Afghan government to secure its future.  Our shared 
interest is in building peace in a war-torn land -- a peace that provides 
no safe haven for violent extremists, and that provide hope for the Afghan 
people.
 
Meanwhile, we’ve made progress on one of our core commitments -- our effort 
to end the war in Iraq.  Nearly 100,000 American troops have now left Iraq 
under my presidency.  Iraqis have taken full responsibility for their 
security.  And we will continue to support Iraq as it forms an inclusive 
government, and we will bring all of our troops home.
 
In the Middle East, we have faced false starts and setbacks, but we’ve been 
persistent in our pursuit of peace.  Israelis and Palestinians restarted 
direct talks, but enormous obstacles remain.  There should be no illusion 
that peace and security will come easy.  But let there be no doubt:  
America will spare no effort in working for the outcome that is just, and 
that is in the interests of all the parties involved -- two states, Israel 
and Palestine  , living side by side in 
peace and security.  That is our goal.
 
The stakes are high in resolving all of these issues.  For our world has 
grown smaller, and while those forces that connect us have unleashed 
opportunity and great wealth, they also empower those who seek to derail 
progress.  One bomb in a marketplace can obliterate the bustle of daily 
commerce.  One whispered rumor can obscure the truth and set off violence 
between communities that once lived together in peace.  In an age of rapid 
change and colliding cultures, what we share as human beings can sometimes 
be lost.
 
But I believe that the history of both America and Indonesia should give us 
hope.  It is a story written into our national mottos.  In the United 
States, our motto is E pluribus unum -- out of many, one.  Bhinneka Tunggal 
Ika -- unity in diversity.  We are two nations, which have traveled 
different paths.  Yet our nations show that hundreds of millions who hold 
different beliefs can be united in freedom under one flag.  And we are now 
building on that shared humanity -- through young people who will study in 
each other’s schools; through the entrepreneurs forging ties that can lead 
to greater prosperity; and through our embrace of fundamental democratic 
values and human aspirations.
    
Before I came here, I visited Istiqlal mosque
 -- a place of worship that 
was still under construction when I lived in Jakarta.  And I admired its 
soaring minaret and its imposing dome and welcoming space.  But its name 
and history also speak to what makes Indonesia great.  Istiqlal means 
independence, and its construction was in part a testament to the nation’s 
struggle for freedom.  Moreover, this house of worship for many thousands 
of Muslims was designed by a Christian architect.
 
Such is Indonesia’s spirit.  Such is the message of Indonesia’s inclusive 
philosophy, Pancasila  
.  Across an archipelago that contains some of God’s most beautiful 
creations, islands rising above an ocean named for peace, people choose to 
worship God as they please.  Islam flourishes, but so do other faiths.  
Development is strengthened by an emerging democracy.  Ancient traditions 
endure, even as a rising power is on the move.
 
That is not to say that Indonesia is without imperfections.  No country is. 
 But here we can find the ability to bridge divides of race and region and 
religion -- by the ability to see yourself in other people.  As a child of 
a different race who came here from a distant country, I found this spirit 
in the greeting that I received upon moving here:  Selamat Datang.  As a 
Christian visiting a mosque on this visit, I found it in the words of a 
leader who was asked about my visit and said, “Muslims are also allowed in 
churches.  We are all God’s followers.”
 
That spark of the divine lives within each of us.  We cannot give in to 
doubt or cynicism or despair.  The stories of Indonesia and America should 
make us optimistic, because it tells us that history is on the side of 
human progress; that unity is more powerful than division; and that the 
people of this world can live together in peace.  May our two nations, 
working together, with faith and determination, share these truths with all 
mankind.

Sebagai penutup, saya mengucapkan kepada seluruh rakyat Indonesia: Terima 
kasih atas.  Terima kasih.  Assalamualaikum. [In conclusion, I would like 
say thank you to all Indonesia: Thank you for your assistance. Thank you. 
Peace be upon you.]

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.