 

 

Barack Obama

Father's Day Address

delivered 21 June 2010

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Hello!  Hello, everybody!  Thank you so much.  Thank you. Thank you very 
much.  Everybody, please have a seat.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  
Let me just begin by making a few acknowledgements.  First of all, I've got 
some outstanding fathers here in the first row who aren’t seeing their kids 
enough because I'm working them all the time -- three members of my 
Cabinet:  Secretary of the Treasury Tim Geithner --  Attorney General Eric 
Holder -- and Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke are here.

In addition, we've got one of my heroes and I'm sure one of yours, somebody 
whose shoulders I stand on and allowed me to become President of the United 
States, and that's Congressman from the great state of Georgia, John Lewis, 
is here.  A fierce advocate on behalf of the District of Columbia, 
Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton is here.

I want to acknowledge the Mayor of Washington, D.C., Adrian Fenty in the 
house.  The executive director of ARC, Edmund Fleet, is here.  I want to 
thank all the panel discussion participants who are involved in today’s 
events, and I want to thank Nurney Mason -- a Washington, D.C. icon.  
Nurney founded Mason’s Barbershop in 1961.  That's the year I was born.  
It’s still going strong.  He is here with his children and his 
grandchildren.  Where is he?  There he is right there.  I could use a 
little trim.

One year ago this week, we kicked off a national conversation on fatherhood 
and personal responsibility, and members of our administration fanned out 
all across the country to hear from fathers and families about the 
challenges that they face.  Secretary Arne Duncan, our Secretary of 
Education, held a discussion in New Hampshire about the link between 
fatherhood and educational achievement.  Gary Locke talked to fathers in 
California about balancing the needs of their families with the demands of 
their jobs.  Secretary Shinseki, of Veterans Affairs, held a town hall for 
military and veteran dads in North Carolina.  And Attorney General Holder 
traveled to Georgia for a forum about fathers in our criminal justice 
system. 

And in each of these places, each of these leaders posed a simple question: 
 How can we as a nation -- not just the government, but businesses and 
community groups and concerned citizens -- how can we all come together to 
help fathers meet their responsibilities to our families and communities?

And we did this because we know the vital role fathers play in the lives of 
our children.  Fathers are our first teachers and coaches -- or in my 
house, assistant teachers and assistant coaches -- (laughter) -- to mom.  
But they’re our mentors, our role models.  They show us by the example they 
set the kind of people they want us to become. 

But we also know that what too many fathers being absent means -- too many 
fathers missing from too many homes, missing from too many lives.  We know 
that when fathers abandon their responsibilities, there’s harm done to 
those kids.  We know that children who grow up without a father are more 
likely to live in poverty.  They're more likely to drop out of school.  
They're more likely to wind up in prison.  They’re more likely to abuse 
drugs and alcohol.  They’re more likely to run away from home.  They’re 
more likely to become teenage parents themselves.

And I say all this as someone who grew up without a father in my own life.  
He left my family when I was two years old.  And while I was lucky to have 
a wonderful mother and loving grandparents who poured everything they had 
into me and my sister, I still felt the weight of that absence.  It’s 
something that leaves a hole in a child’s life that no government can fill. 


So we can talk all we want here in Washington about issues like education 
and health care and crime; we can build good schools; we can put money into 
creating good jobs; we can do everything we can to keep our streets safe -- 
but government can’t keep our kids from looking for trouble on those 
streets.   Government can’t force a kid to pick up a book or make sure that 
the homework gets done.  Government can’t be there day in, day out, to 
provide discipline and guidance and the love that it takes to raise a 
child.  That’s our job as fathers, as mothers, as guardians for our 
children.

The fact is, it’s easy to become a father, technically -- any guy can do 
that.  It’s hard to live up to the lifelong responsibilities that come with 
fatherhood.  And it’s a challenge even in good times, when our families are 
doing well.  It’s especially difficult when times are tough, families are 
straining just to keep everything together. 

In a time of war, many of our military families are stretched thin, with 
fathers doing multiple tours of duty far away from their children.  In 
difficult economic times, a lot of fathers are worried about whether 
they’re going to be able to keep their job, or find a job, or whether 
they’ll be able to pay the bills and give their children the kinds of 
opportunities that if they didn’t have them themselves, at least they 
wished for their children.  And there are a lot of men who are out of work 
and wrestling with the shame and frustration that comes when you feel like 
you can’t be the kind of provider you want to be for the people that you 
love. 

But here’s the key message I think all of us want to send today to fathers 
all across the country:  Our children don’t need us to be superheroes.  
They don’t need us to be perfect.  They do need us to be present.  They 
need us to show up and give it our best shot, no matter what else is going 
on in our lives.  They need us to show them -- not just with words, but 
with deeds -- that they, those kids, are always our first priority.

Those family meals, afternoons in the park, bedtime stories; the 
encouragement we give, the questions we answer, the limits we set, the 
example we set of persistence in the face of difficulty and hardship -- 
those things add up over time, and they shape a child’s character, build 
their core, teach them to trust in life and to enter into it with 
confidence and with hope and with determination.  And that’s something 
they’ll always carry with them:  that love that we show not with money, or 
fame, or spectacular feats, but through small daily acts -- the love we 
show and that we earn by being present in the lives of our children.

Now, unfortunately, the way we talk about fatherhood in this country 
doesn’t always reinforce these truths.  When we talk about issues like 
child care and work-family balance, we call them “women’s issues” and 
“mothers’ issues.”  Too often when we talk about fatherhood and personal 
responsibility, we talk about it in political terms, in terms of left and 
right, conservative/liberal, instead of what’s right and what’s wrong.  And 
when we do that, we’ve gotten off track.  So I think it’s time for a new 
conversation around fatherhood in this country.

We can all agree that we’ve got too many mothers out there forced to do 
everything all by themselves.  They’re doing a heroic job, often under 
trying circumstances.  They deserve a lot of credit for that.  But they 
shouldn’t have to do it alone.  The work of raising our children is the 
most important job in this country, and it’s all of our responsibilities -- 
mothers and fathers.

Now, I can’t legislate fatherhood -- I can’t force anybody to love a child. 
 But what we can do is send a clear message to our fathers that there is no 
excuse for failing to meet their obligations.  What we can do is make it 
easier for fathers who make responsible choices and harder for those who 
avoid those choices.  What we can do is come together and support fathers 
who are willing to step up and be good partners and parents and providers. 

And that’s why today we’re launching the next phase of our work to promote 
responsible fatherhood -- a new, nationwide Fatherhood and Mentoring 
Initiative.  This is a call to action with cities and states, with 
individuals and organizations across the country -- from the NFL Players 
Association to the National PTA, to everyday moms and dads -- we’re raising 
awareness about responsible fatherhood and working to re-engage absent 
fathers with their families. 

As part of this effort, we’ve proposed a new and expanded Fatherhood, 
Marriage and Families Innovation Fund.  And we plan to seek out and support 
the very best, most successful initiatives in our states and communities -- 
those that are offering services like job training, or parenting skills 
classes, domestic violence prevention -- all which help provide the kind of 
network of support for men, particularly those in vulnerable communities. 

We’re also going to help dads who get caught up -- we want to make sure 
that they're caught up on child support payments and that we re-engage them 
in their children’s lives.  We’re going to support efforts to build healthy 
relationships between parents as well -- because we know that children 
benefit not just from loving mothers and loving fathers, but from strong 
and loving marriages as well.

We’re also launching a new transitional jobs initiative for ex-offenders 
and low-income, non-custodial fathers -- because these are men who often 
face serious barriers to finding work and keeping work.  We’ll help them 
develop the skills and experience they need to move into full-time, 
long-term employment, so they can meet their child support obligations and 
help provide for their families.

And under Eric Holder’s direction, our Justice Department is planning to 
create its first “Fathering Re-Entry Court” for ex-offender dads -- and to 
help replicate this program in courts across the country.  The idea here is 
very simple:  to reach fathers right as they’re leaving the criminal 
justice system and connect them immediately to the employment and services 
they need to start making their child support payments and reconnecting 
them with their families. 

This program was inspired by leaders like Peter Spokes, who was the 
executive director of the National Center for Fathering -- a good friend to 
many in our administration, all of whom were deeply saddened by his recent 
passing.  And we are honored to have Peter’s wife, Barbara, with us here 
today.  Where’s Barbara?  I just saw her earlier.  There she is.  Thank 
you.

So these initiatives are a good start.  But ultimately, we know that the 
decision to be a good father -- that’s up to us, each of us, as 
individuals.  It’s one that men across this country are making every single 
day -- attending those school assemblies; parent-teacher conferences; 
coaching soccer, Little League; scrimping and saving, and working that 
extra shift so that their children can go to college.  And plenty of 
fathers -- and men who aren’t fathers as well -- are stepping up to serve 
as mentors and tutors and big brothers and foster parents to young people 
who don’t have any responsible adult in their lives.   

Even when we give it our best efforts, there will still be plenty of days 
of struggle and heartache when we don’t quite measure up -- talking to the 
men here now.  Even with all the good fortune and support Michelle and I 
have had in our lives, I’ve made plenty of mistakes as a parent.  I’ve lost 
count of all the times when the demands of work have taken me from the 
duties of fatherhood.  And I know I’ve missed out on moments in my 
daughters’ lives that I’ll never get back, and that’s a loss that’s hard to 
accept. 

But I also know the feeling that one author described when she wrote that 
“to have a child…is to decide forever to have your heart go walking around 
outside your body.”  Think about that -- to have a child is to have your 
heart walking around outside your body.

I’m sure a lot of fathers here know that same memory that I have, of 
driving home with Michelle and Malia right after she was born, going about 
10 miles an hour.  Your emotions swinging between unadulterated joy and 
sheer terror.  And I made a pledge that day that I would do everything I 
could to give my daughter what I never had -- that if I could be anything 
in life, I would be a good father.

And like a lot of the men here, since that time I’ve found there’s nothing 
else in my life that compares to the pleasures I take in spending time with 
my girls.  Nothing else comes close to the pride I feel in their 
achievement and the satisfaction I get in watching them grow into strong, 
confident young women.

Over the course of my life, I have been an attorney, I’ve been a professor, 
I’ve been a state senator, I’ve been a U.S. senator -- and I currently am 
serving as President of the United States.  But I can say without 
hesitation that the most challenging, most fulfilling, most important job I 
will have during my time on this Earth is to be Sasha and Malia’s dad.

So you don’t need a fancy degree for that.  You don’t need a lot of money 
for that.  No matter what doubts we may feel, what difficulties we may 
face, we all have to remember being a father -- it’s not just an obligation 
and a responsibility; it is a privilege and a blessing, one that we all 
have to embrace as individuals and as a nation.

So, Happy Father’s Day, everybody.  God bless you.  God bless the United 
States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.