 

 

Barack Obama

To House Democratic Caucus on Health Care Reform Bill

delivered 20 March 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you!  Everybody, please have a set.

To Leader Reid, to Steny Hoyer, John Larson, Xavier Becerra, Jim Clyburn, 
Chris Van Hollen, to an extraordinary leader and extraordinary Speaker of 
the House, Nancy Pelosi, and to all the members here today, thank you very 
much for having me.  Thanks for having me and thanks for your tireless 
efforts waged on behalf of health insurance reform in this country. 

I have the great pleasure of having a really nice library at the White 
House.  And I was tooling through some of the writings of some previous 
Presidents and I came upon this quote by Abraham Lincoln:  “I am not bound 
to win, but I’m bound to be true.  I’m not bound to succeed, but I’m bound 
to live up to what light I have.”

This debate has been a difficult debate.  This process has been a difficult 
process.  And this year has been a difficult year for the American people.  
When I was sworn in, we were in the midst of the worst recession since the 
Great Depression.  Eight hundred thousand people per month were losing 
their jobs.  Millions of people were losing their health insurance.  And 
the financial system was on the verge of collapse.

And this body has taken on some of the toughest votes and some of the 
toughest decisions in the history of Congress.  Not because you were bound 
to win, but because you were bound to be true.  Because each and every one 
of you made a decision that at a moment of such urgency, it was less 
important to measure what the polls said than to measure what was right.

A year later, we’re in different circumstances.  Because of the actions 
that you’ve taken, the financial system has stabilized.  The stock market 
has stabilized.  Businesses are starting to invest again.  The economy, 
instead of contracting, is now growing again.  There are signs that people 
are going to start hiring again.  There’s still tremendous hardship all 
across the country, but there is a sense that we are making progress -- 
because of you.

But even before this crisis, each and every one of us knew that there were 
millions of people across America who were living their own quiet crises.  
Maybe because they had a child who had a preexisting condition and no 
matter how desperate they were, no matter what insurance company they 
called, they couldn’t get coverage for that child.  Maybe it was somebody 
who had been forced into early retirement, in their 50s not yet eligible 
for Medicare, and they couldn’t find a job and they couldn’t find health 
insurance, despite the fact that they had some sort of chronic condition 
that had to be tended to.

Every single one of you at some point before you arrived in Congress and 
after you arrived in Congress have met constituents with heart-breaking 
stories.  And you’ve looked them in the eye and you’ve said, we’re going to 
do something about it -- that’s why I want to go to Congress. 

And now, we’re on the threshold of doing something about it.  We’re a day 
away.  After a year of debate, after every argument has been made, by just 
about everybody, we’re 24 hours away. 

As some of you know, I’m not somebody who spends a lot of time surfing the 
cable channels, but I’m not completely in the bubble.  I have a sense of 
what the coverage has been, and mostly it’s an obsession with “What will 
this mean for the Democratic Party?  What will this mean for the 
President’s polls?  How will this play out in November?  Is this good or is 
this bad for the Democratic majority?  What does it mean for those swing 
districts?” 

And I noticed that there’s been a lot of friendly advice offered all across 
town.  Mitch McConnell, John Boehner, Karl Rove -- they’re all warning you 
of the horrendous impact if you support this legislation.  Now, it could be 
that they are suddenly having a change of heart and they are deeply 
concerned about their Democratic friends. They are giving you the best 
possible advice in order to assure that Nancy Pelosi remains Speaker and 
Harry Reid remains Leader and that all of you keep your seats.  That’s a 
possibility. 

But it may also be possible that they realize after health reform passes 
and I sign that legislation into law, that it’s going to be a little harder 
to mischaracterize what this effort has been all about. 

Because this year, small businesses will start getting tax credits so that 
they can offer health insurance to employees who currently don’t have it. 
Because this year, those same parents who are worried about getting 
coverage for their children with preexisting conditions now are assured 
that insurance companies have to give them coverage -- this year. 

Because this year, insurance companies won’t suddenly be able to drop your 
coverage when you get sick -- or impose lifetime limits or restrictive 
limits on the coverage that you have.  Maybe they know that this year, for 
the first time, young people will be able to stay on their parents’ health 
insurance until they’re 26 years old and they’re thinking that just might 
be popular all across the country.

And what they also know is what won’t happen.  They know that after this 
legislation passes and after I sign this bill, lo and behold nobody is 
pulling the plug on Granny. It turns out that in fact people who like their 
health insurance are going to be able to keep their health insurance; that 
there’s no government takeover.  People will discover that if they like 
their doctor, they’ll be keeping their doctor.  In fact, they’re more 
likely to keep their doctor because of a stronger system.

It’ll turn out that this piece of historic legislation is built on the 
private insurance system that we have now and runs straight down the center 
of American political thought.  It turns out this is a bill that tracks the 
recommendations not just of Democrat Tom Daschle, but also Republicans Bob 
Dole and Howard Baker; that this is a middle-of-the-road bill that is 
designed to help the American people in an area of their lives where they 
urgently need help.

Now, there are some who wanted a single-payer government-run system.  
That’s not this bill.  The Republicans wanted what I called the “foxes 
guard the henhouse approach” in which we further deregulate the insurance 
companies and let them run wild, the notion being somehow that that was 
going to lower costs for the American people.  I don’t know a serious 
health care economist who buys that idea, but that was their concept.  And 
we rejected that, because what we said was we want to create a system in 
which health care is working not for insurance companies but it’s working 
for the American people, it’s working for middle class families.

So what did we do?  What is the essence of this legislation?  Number one, 
this is the toughest insurance reforms in history. We are making sure that 
the system of private insurance works for ordinary families.  A 
prescription -- this is a patient’s bill of rights on steroids.  So many of 
you individually have worked on these insurance reforms -- they are in this 
package -- to make sure that families are getting a fair deal; that if 
they’re paying a premium, that they’re getting a good service in return; 
making sure that employers, if they are paying premiums for their 
employees, that their employees are getting the coverage that they expect; 
that insurance companies are not going to game the system with fine print 
and rescissions and dropping people when they need it most, but instead are 
going to have to abide by some basic rules of the road that exemplify a 
sense of fairness and good value.  That’s number one.

The second thing this does is it creates a pool, a marketplace, where 
individuals and small businesses, who right now are having a terrible time 
out there getting health insurance, are going to be able to purchase health 
insurance as part of a big group -- just like federal employees, just like 
members of Congress.  They are now going to be part of a pool that can 
negotiate for better rates, better quality, more competition. 

And that’s why the Congressional Budget Office says this will lower 
people’s rates for comparable plans by 14 to 20 percent. That’s not my 
numbers -- that’s the Congressional Budget Office’s numbers.  So that 
people will have choice and competition just like members of Congress have 
choice and competition.

Number three, if people still can’t afford it we’re going to provide them 
some tax credits -- the biggest tax cut for small businesses and working 
families when it comes to health care in history.

And number four, this is the biggest reduction in our deficit since the 
Budget Balance Act -- one of the biggest deficit reduction measures in 
history -- over $1.3 trillion that will help put us on the path of fiscal 
responsibility.

And that’s before we count all the game-changing measures that are going to 
assure, for example, that instead of having five tests when you go to the 
doctor you just get one; that the delivery system is working for patients, 
not just working for billings.  And everybody who’s looked at it says that 
every single good idea to bend the cost curve and start actually reducing 
health care costs are in this bill.

So that’s what this effort is all about.  Toughest insurance reforms in 
history.  A marketplace so people have choice and competition who right now 
don’t have it and are seeing their premiums go up 20, 30, 40, 50 percent.  
Reductions in the cost of health care for millions of American families, 
including those who have health insurance.  The Business Roundtable did 
their own study and said that this would potentially save employers $3,000 
per employee on their health care because of the measures in this 
legislation. 

And by the way, not only does it reduce the deficit -- we pay for it 
responsibly in ways that the other side of the aisle that talks a lot about 
fiscal responsibility but doesn’t seem to be able to walk the walk can’t 
claim when it comes to their prescription drug bill.  We are actually doing 
it.  This is paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit -- it will 
reduce the deficit.

Now, is this bill perfect?  Of course not.  Will this solve every single 
problem in our health care system right away?  No.  There are all kinds of 
ideas that many of you have that aren’t included in this legislation.  I 
know that there has been discussion, for example, of how we’re going to 
deal with regional disparities and I know that there was a meeting with 
Secretary Sebelius to assure that we can continue to try to make sure that 
we’ve got a system that gives people the best bang for their buck.

So this is not -- there are all kinds of things that many of you would like 
to see that isn’t in this legislation.  There are some things I’d like to 
see that’s not in this legislation.  But is this the single most important 
step that we have taken on health care since Medicare?  Absolutely.  Is 
this the most important piece of domestic legislation in terms of giving a 
break to hardworking middle class families out there since Medicare?  
Absolutely.  Is this a vast improvement over the status quo?  Absolutely.

Now, I still know this is a tough vote, though.  I know this is a tough 
vote.  I’ve talked to many of you individually.  And I have to say that if 
you honestly believe in your heart of hearts, in your conscience, that this 
is not an improvement over the status quo; if despite all the information 
that’s out there that says that without serious reform efforts like this 
one people’s premiums are going to double over the next five or 10 years, 
that folks are going to keep on getting letters from their insurance 
companies saying that their premium just went up 40 or 50 percent; if you 
think that somehow it’s okay that we have millions of hardworking Americans 
who can’t get health care and that it’s all right, it’s acceptable, in the 
wealthiest nation on Earth that there are children with chronic illnesses 
that can’t get the care that they need -- if you think that the system is 
working for ordinary Americans rather than the insurance companies, then 
you should vote no on this bill.  If you can honestly say that, then you 
shouldn’t support it.  You’re here to represent your constituencies and if 
you think your constituencies honestly wouldn’t be helped, you shouldn’t 
vote for this.

But if you agree that the system is not working for ordinary families, if 
you’ve heard the same stories that I’ve heard everywhere, all across the 
country, then help us fix this system.  Don't do it for me.  Don’t do it 
for Nancy Pelosi or Harry Reid.  Do it for all those people out there who 
are struggling. 

Some of you know I get 10 letters a day that I read out of the 40,000 that 
we receive.  Started reading some of the ones that I got this morning.  
“Dear President Obama, my daughter, a wonderful person, lost her job.  She 
has no health insurance.  She had a blood clot in her brain.  She’s now 
disabled, can’t get care.”  “Dear President Obama, I don’t yet qualify for 
Medicare.  COBRA is about to run out.  I am desperate, don't know what to 
do.”

Do it for them.  Do it for people who are really scared right now through 
no fault of their own, who’ve played by the rules, who’ve done all the 
right things, and have suddenly found out that because of an accident, 
because of an ailment, they’re about to lose their house; or they can’t 
provide the help to their kids that they need; or they’re a small business 
who up until now has always taken pride in providing care for their workers 
and it turns out that they just can’t afford to do it anymore and they’ve 
having to make a decision about do I keep providing health insurance for my 
workers or do I just drop their coverage or do I not hire some people 
because I simply can’t afford it -- it’s all being gobbled up by the 
insurance companies.

Don’t do it for me.  Don’t do it for the Democratic Party.  Do it for the 
American people.  They’re the ones who are looking for action right now.

I know this is a tough vote.  And I am actually confident -- I’ve talked to 
some of you individually -- that it will end up being the smart thing to do 
politically because I believe that good policy is good politics.  I am 
convinced that when you go out there and you are standing tall and you are 
saying I believe that this is the right thing to do for my constituents and 
the right thing to do for America, that ultimately the truth will out.

I had a wonderful conversation with Betsy Markey.  I don't know if Betsy is 
around here.  There she is right there.  Betsy is in a tough district.  The 
biggest newspaper is somewhat conservative, as Betsy described.  They 
weren’t real happy with health care reform.  They were opposed to it.  
Betsy, despite the pressure, announced that she was in favor of this bill.  
And lo and behold, the next day that same newspaper runs an editorial 
saying, you know what, we’ve considered this, we’ve looked at the 
legislation, and we actually are pleased that Congresswoman Markey is 
supporting the legislation.

When I see John Boccieri stand up proud with a whole bunch of his 
constituencies -- in as tough a district as there is and stand up with a 
bunch of folks from his district with preexisting conditions and saying, 
you know, I don’t know what is going on Washington but I know what’s going 
on with these families -- I look at him with pride.

Now, I can’t guarantee that this is good politics.  Every one of you know 
your districts better than I do.  You talk to folks.  You’re under enormous 
pressure.  You’re getting robocalls.  You’re getting e-mails that are tying 
up the communications system.  I know the pressure you’re under.  I get a 
few comments made about me.  I don’t know if you’ve noticed.  I’ve been in 
your shoes.  I know what it’s like to take a tough vote.

But what did Lincoln say?  “I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be 
true.”  Two generations ago, folks who were sitting in your position, they 
made a decision -- we are going to make sure that seniors and the poor have 
health care coverage that they can count on.  And they did the right thing. 


And I’m sure at the time they were making that vote, they weren’t sure how 
the politics were either, any more than the people who made the decision to 
make sure that Social Security was in place knew how the politics would 
play out, or folks who passed the civil rights acts knew how the politics 
were going to play out.  They were not bound to win, but they were bound to 
be true.

And now we’ve got middle class Americans, don’t have Medicare, don’t have 
Medicaid, watching the employer-based system fray along the edges or being 
caught in terrible situations.  And the question is, are we going to be 
true to them? 

Sometimes I think about how I got involved in politics.  I didn’t think of 
myself as a potential politician when I get out of college.  I went to work 
in neighborhoods, working with Catholic churches in poor neighborhoods in 
Chicago, trying to figure out how people could get a little bit of help.  
And I was skeptical about politics and politicians, just like a lot of 
Americans are skeptical about politics and politicians are right now.  
Because my working assumption was when push comes to shove, all too often 
folks in elected office, they’re looking for themselves and not looking out 
for the folks who put them there; that there are too many compromises; that 
the special interests have too much power; they just got too much clout; 
there’s too much big money washing around.

And I decided finally to get involved because I realized if I wasn’t 
willing to step up and be true to the things I believe in, then the system 
wouldn’t change.  Every single one of you had that same kind of moment at 
the beginning of your careers.  Maybe it was just listening to stories in 
your neighborhood about what was happening to people who’d been laid off of 
work.  Maybe it was your own family experience, somebody got sick and 
didn’t have health care and you said something should change. 

Something inspired you to get involved, and something inspired you to be a 
Democrat instead of running as a Republican.  Because somewhere deep in 
your heart you said to yourself, I believe in an America in which we don’t 
just look out for ourselves, that we don’t just tell people you’re on your 
own, that we are proud of our individualism, we are proud of our liberty, 
but we also have a sense of neighborliness and a sense of community -- and 
we are willing to look out for one another and help people who are 
vulnerable and help people who are down on their luck and give them a 
pathway to success and give them a ladder into the middle class.  That’s 
why you decided to run.

And now a lot of us have been here a while and everybody here has taken 
their lumps and their bruises.  And it turns out people have had to make 
compromises, and you’ve been away from families for a long time and you’ve 
missed special events for your kids sometimes.  And maybe there have been 
times where you asked yourself, why did I ever get involved in politics in 
the first place?  And maybe things can’t change after all.  And when you do 
something courageous, it turns out sometimes you may be attacked.  And 
sometimes the very people you thought you were trying to help may be angry 
at you and shout at you.  And you say to yourself, maybe that thing that I 
started with has been lost. 

But you know what?  Every once in a while, every once in a while a moment 
comes where you have a chance to vindicate all those best hopes that you 
had about yourself, about this country, where you have a chance to make 
good on those promises that you made in all those town meetings and all 
those constituency breakfasts and all that traveling through the district, 
all those people who you looked in the eye and you said, you know what, 
you’re right, the system is not working for you and I’m going to make it a 
little bit better. 

And this is one of those moments.  This is one of those times where you can 
honestly say to yourself, doggone it, this is exactly why I came here.  
This is why I got into politics.  This is why I got into public service.  
This is why I’ve made those sacrifices.  Because I believe so deeply in 
this country and I believe so deeply in this democracy and I’m willing to 
stand up even when it’s hard, even when it’s tough.

Every single one of you have made that promise not just to your 
constituents but to yourself.  And this is the time to make true on that 
promise.  We are not bound to win, but we are bound to be true.  We are not 
bound to succeed, but we are bound to let whatever light we have shine.  We 
have been debating health care for decades.  It has now been debated for a 
year.  It is in your hands.  It is time to pass health care reform for 
America, and I am confident that you are going to do it tomorrow. 

Thank you very much, House of Representatives.  Let’s get this done.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.