 

 

Barack Obama

Remarks at the White House Correspondents Association Dinner

With Special Appearance by Jay Leno

delivered 2 May 2010, Washington Hilton Hotel, Washington, D.C.

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you so much, Ed.  And to all the other board members; to honored 
guests; and to the lovely First Lady. Good evening. 

Ed is right, I work a lot.  And so I wasn’t sure that I should actually 
come tonight.  Biden talked me into it.  He leaned over and he said, "Mr. 
President -- this is no ordinary dinner. This is a big [beep] meal."

It's been quite a year since I've spoken here last -- lots of ups, lots of 
downs -- except for my approval ratings, which have just gone down. But 
that's politics.  It doesn’t bother me.  Beside I happen to know that my 
approval ratings are still very high in the country of my birth.

And then just the other day, my dear friend, Hillary Clinton, pulled me 
aside and she gave me a pep talk.  She said, despite the numbers, she said, 
"Don't worry, Barack, you're likeable enough."  Which made me feel better.

Of course I may not have had the star power that I once had -- but in my 
defense, neither do all of you.

People say to me, "Mr. President, you helped revive the banking industry, 
you saved GM and Chrysler.  What about the news business?"  I have to 
explain, hey, I'm just the President.  I'm not a miracle worker, here.

Though I am glad that the only person whose ratings fell more than mine 
last year is here tonight -- great to see you, Jay. I'm also glad that I'm 
speaking first, because we've all seen what happens when somebody takes the 
time slot after Leno's.

JAY LENO:  Goodnight, everybody.

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, all of the jokes here tonight are brought to 
you by our friends at Goldman Sachs.  So you don't have to worry -- they 
make money whether you laugh or not.

We do have a number of notable guests in attendance here tonight.  
Obviously I'm most pleased that Michelle accompanied me.  She doesn’t 
always go to these things.  And there are few things in life that are 
harder to find and more important to keep than love -- well, love and a 
birth certificate.

The Jonas Brothers are here. They're out there somewhere.  Sasha and Malia 
are huge fans.  But, boys, don't get any ideas. I have two words for you -- 
predator drones. You will never see it coming.  You think I'm joking.

Speaking of 'tween heartthrobs, Scott Brown is here.  I admire Scott -- a 
rare politician in Washington with nothing to hide. Now, you should be 
aware that Scott Brown is not the only one with a salacious photo spread 
floating around.  Recently David Axelrod was offered a centerfold 
opportunity of his own -- now, I did not know that Krispy-Kreme had a 
catalog. But it's true. 

I saw Michael Steele backstage when we were taking pictures -- aka 
Notorious GOP.  Michael, who knows what truly plagues America today -- 
taxation without representin' -- my brother.  I did a similar routine last 
year, but it always works.

Odds are that the Salahis are here.  There haven't been people that were 
more unwelcome at a party since Charlie Crist.

Unfortunately, John McCain couldn't make it.  Recently he claimed that he 
had never identified himself as a maverick.  And we all know what happens 
in Arizona when you don't have ID.  Adios, amigos.

Look, I feel for John.  You know, we were on the road together and 
obviously had a hard-fought battle, and you learn, certainly at the 
national level, politics isn’t easy.  This year I've experienced my share 
of disappointments.  For example, I had my heart set on the Nobel Prize -- 
for Physics.  But, hey, you can't win 'em all.

Speaking of undeserved honors, a few weeks ago I was able to throw out the 
first pitch at the Nationals  game.  
And I don't know if you saw it, but I threw it a little high and a little 
outside.  This is how FOX News covered it:  "President panders to extreme 
left-wing of batter box."  On the other hand, MSNBC had a different take: 
"President pitches no-hitter." And then CNN went a different way 
altogether. [Video shown about volcano eruption in Iceland.] I guess that's 
why they're the most trusted name in news.

Now, look, I have a reputation for giving cable a hard time, so let's pick 
on Politico for a while.  You know, people attack Politico for putting a 
new focus on trivial issues, political fodder, gossip sheet.  That's not 
fair.  Politico has been doing this for centuries now.  Just check out 
these headlines -- our researchers found these:  "Japan surrenders -- 
where's the bounce?"  Then there's this one:  "Lincoln saves Union, but can 
he save House majority?"  I don't know if you can see, there's a little 
portion there -- "He's lost the Southern white vote."  It's an astute 
analysis there.

And my favorite, July 3, 1776 -- "Senior Whig official: Talks break down, 
independence dead."

So this is nothing new.  But even though the mainstream press gives me a 
hard time, I hear that I'm still pretty big on Twitter, Facebook -- or as 
Sarah Palin calls it, "the socialized media."

Of course, that's not the only thing that we've been accused of socializing 
this year.  You might have heard we passed a health care bill and -- Is 
that Roger Ailes applauding out there?  Some Republicans have suggested 
that the bill contains a few secret provisions.  That's ridiculous.  There 
aren’t a few secret provisions in the health care plan -- there are, like, 
hundreds.

Tonight, in the interest of transparency, I'd like to share a couple.  
Let's see -- this provision is called the Bay State of Denial.  It reads:  
"This bill shall cover short-term memory loss related to the passage of 
Massachusetts health care reform."  So, good news, Mitt, your condition is 
covered.

This next provision is called the Jersey Shore-Up.  It reads:  "The 
following individuals shall be excluded from the indoor tanning tax within 
this bill."  Snooki, J-WOWW, the Situation, and House Minority Leader John 
Boehner.

This provision ought to put a common misperception to rest. It says right 
here:  "If you do not like the ruling of your death panel you can appeal."

Now, look, obviously I've learned this year politics can be a tough 
business, but there are times where you just can't help but laugh.  You 
know what really tickles me?  Eric Massa.  Apparently Massa claimed that 
Rahm came up to him one day in the House locker room, stark naked, started 
screaming obscenities at him -- to which I say, welcome to my world.  I 
feel you.  It's a tense moment.

You know, even as we enjoy each other's company tonight, we're also mindful 
of the incredible struggles of our fellow Americans in the Gulf Coast, both 
those leading the efforts to stem this crisis and those along the coast 
whose livelihoods are in jeopardy as a result of the spill. 

Also in our thoughts and prayers tonight are the men and women in uniform 
who put their lives at risk each and every day for our safety and freedom.  
So in that spirit, I'd also like to pay a tribute to the journalists who 
play an extraordinary role in telling their stories. 

Earlier today I gave the commencement address at Michigan, where I spoke to 
the graduates about what is required to keep out democracy thriving in the 
21st century.  And one of the points I made is that for all the changes and 
challenges facing your industry, this country absolutely needs a healthy, 
vibrant media. 'Probably needs it more than ever now.

Today's technology -- today's technology has made it possible for us to get 
our news and information from a growing range of sources.  We can pick and 
choose not only our preferred type of media, but also our preferred 
perspective.  And while that exposes us to an unprecedented array of 
opinions, analysis, and points of view, it also makes it that much more 
important that we're all operating on a common baseline of facts. It makes 
it that much more important that journalists out there seek only the truth.

And I don't have to tell you that.  Some of you are seasoned veterans who 
have been on the political beat for decades; others here tonight began 
their careers as bloggers not long ago.  But I think it's fair to say that 
every single reporter in this room believes deeply in the enterprise of 
journalism.  Every one of you, even the most cynical among you, understands 
and cherishes the function of a free press and the preservation of our 
system of government and of our way of life.

And I want you to know that for all the jokes and the occasional gripes, I 
cherish that work, as well.  In fact, tonight I wanted to present all of 
you with a bipartisan congressional resolution that honors all those 
wonderful contributions that journalists have made to our country and the 
world -- but, unfortunately, I couldn't break the filibuster.

Thank you very much, everybody.  God bless you and God bless the United 
States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.