 

 

Barack Obama

Eulogy Remarks at the Memorial Service for Robert Byrd

delivered 2 July 2010, West Virginia State Capitol, Charleston, West 
Virginia

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

To Mona and Marjorie, and to Senator Byrd’s entire family, including those 
adorable great granddaughters that I had a chance to meet -- Michelle and I 
offer you our deepest sympathies.

To Senator Byrd’s friends, including the Speaker of the House, the Majority 
Leader, the Republican Leader, President Clinton, Vice President Biden, 
Vicki Kennedy, Nick Rahall and all the previous speakers; Senator 
Rockefeller for the outstanding work that you’ve done for the state of West 
Virginia; to his larger family -- the people of West Virginia -- I want you 
all to know that all America shares your loss.  May we all find comfort in 
a verse of Scripture that reminds me of our dear friend:  “The time of my 
departure has come.  I have fought the good fight, I have finished the 
race, I have kept the faith.”

It’s interesting that you’ve heard that passage from several speakers now, 
because it embodies somebody who knew how to run a good and long race, and 
somebody who knew how to keep the faith -- with his state, with his family, 
with his country and his Constitution.

Years from now, when I think of the man we memorialize today, I’ll remember 
him as he was when I came to know him, his white hair full like a mane, his 
gait steadied with a cane.

Determined to make the most of every last breath, the distinguished 
gentleman from West Virginia could be found at his desk until the very end, 
doing the people’s business, delivering soul-stirring speeches, a hint of 
the Appalachians in his voice, stabbing the air with his finger, fiery as 
ever, years into his 10th decade.

He was a Senate icon.  He was a Party leader.  He was an elder statesman.  
And he was my friend.  That’s how I’ll remember him.

Today we remember the path he climbed to such extraordinary peaks.  Born 
Cornelius Calvin Sale, Jr. -- Corny, he joked, for short -- his mother lost 
her life in the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918.  From the aunt and uncle 
who raised him, amid West Virginia’s coal camps, he gained not only his 
Byrd name but a reverence for God Almighty, a love of learning that was 
nurtured at Mark Twain School.  And there he met Erma, his sweetheart for 
over 70 years, by whose side he will now rest for eternity.

Unable to afford college, he did what he could to get by, finding work as a 
gas station attendant, a produce salesman, a meat-cutter, and a welder in 
the shipyards of Baltimore and Tampa during World War II.  Returning home 
to West Virginia after the war, he ran for the state House of Delegates, 
using his fiddle case as a briefcase, the better to stand out on the stump.

Before long, he ran for Congress, serving in the House before jumping over 
to the Senate, where he was elected nine times, held almost every 
leadership role imaginable, and proved as capable of swaying others as 
standing alone, marking a row of milestones along the way.  Longest-serving 
member of Congress.  Nearly 19,000 votes cast.  Not a single loss at the 
polls -- a record that speaks to the bond that he had with you, the people 
of his state.

Transplanted to Washington, his heart remained here, in West Virginia, in 
the place that shaped him, with the people he loved.  His heart belonged to 
you.  Making life better here was his only agenda.  Giving you hope, he 
said, was his greatest achievement.  Hope in the form of new jobs and 
industries.  Hope in the form of black lung benefits and union protections. 
 Hope through roads and research centers, schools and scholarships, health 
clinics and industrial parks that bear his name.

His early rival and late friend, Ted Kennedy, used to joke about 
campaigning in West Virginia.  When his bus broke down, Ted got hold of the 
highway patrol, who asked where he was.  And he said, “I’m on Robert Byrd 
highway.”  And the dispatcher said, “Which one?”

It’s a life that immeasurably improved the lives of West Virginians.  Of 
course, Robert Byrd was a deeply religious man, a Christian.  And so he 
understood that our lives are marked by sins as well as virtues, failures 
as well as success, weakness as well as strength.  We know there are things 
he said -- and things he did -- that he came to regret.  I remember talking 
about that the first time I visited with him.  He said, “There are things I 
regretted in my youth.  You may know that.”  And I said, “None of us are 
absent some regrets, Senator.  That’s why we enjoy and seek the grace of 
God.” 

And as I reflect on the full sweep of his 92 years, it seems to me that his 
life bent towards justice.  Like the Constitution he tucked in his pocket, 
like our nation itself, Robert Byrd possessed that quintessential American 
quality, and that is a capacity to change, a capacity to learn, a capacity 
to listen, a capacity to be made more perfect.

Over his nearly six decades in our Capitol, he came to be seen as the very 
embodiment of the Senate, chronicling its history in four volumes that he 
gave to me just as he gave to President Clinton.  I, too, read it.  I was 
scared he was going to quiz me.

But as I soon discovered, his passion for the Senate’s past, his mastery of 
even its most arcane procedures, it wasn’t an obsession with the trivial or 
the obscure.  It reflected a profoundly noble impulse, a recognition of a 
basic truth about this country that we are not a nation of men, we are a 
nation of laws.  Our way of life rests on our democratic institutions.  
Precisely because we are fallible, it falls to each of us to safeguard 
these institutions, even when it’s inconvenient, and pass on our republic 
more perfect than before.

Considering the vast learning of this self-taught Senator -- his speeches 
sprinkled with the likes of Cicero and Shakespeare and Jefferson -- it 
seems fitting to close with one of his favorite passages in literature, a 
passage from Moby Dick:

“And there is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into 
the blackest gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisible in the 
sunny spaces.  And even if he forever flies within the gorge, that gorge is 
in the mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is 
still higher than any other bird upon the plain, even though they soar.”

Robert Byrd was a mountain eagle, and his lowest swoop was still higher 
than the other birds upon the plain.

May God bless Robert C. Byrd.  May he be welcomed kindly by the righteous 
Judge.  And may his spirit soar forever like a Catskill eagle, high above 
the Heavens.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.