 

 

Barack Obama

9/11 Pentagon Memorial Address

delivered 11 September 2010

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen and members of the Armed Forces, my fellow 
Americans;   most of all, to you -- survivors who still carry the scars of 
tragedy and destruction; to the families who carry in your hearts the 
memory of the loved ones you lost here: 

For our nation, this is a day of remembrance, a day of reflection, and -- 
with God’s grace -- a day of unity and renewal.

We gather to remember, at this sacred hour, on hallowed ground -- at places 
where we feel such grief and where our healing goes on.  We gather here, at 
the Pentagon, where the names of the lost are forever etched in stone.  We 
gather in a gentle Pennsylvania field, where a plane went down and a “tower 
of voices” will rise and echo through the ages.  And we gather where the 
Twin Towers fell, a site where the work goes on so that next year, on the 
10th anniversary, the waters will flow in steady tribute to the nearly 
3,000 innocent lives.

On this day, it’s perhaps natural to focus on the images of that awful 
morning -- images that are seared into our souls.  It’s tempting to dwell 
on the final moments of the loved ones whose lives were taken so cruelly.  
Yet these memorials, and your presence today, remind us to remember the 
fullness of their time on Earth.

They were fathers and mothers, raising their families; brothers and 
sisters, pursuing their dreams; sons and daughters, their whole lives 
before them.  They were civilians and service members.  Some never saw the 
danger coming; others saw the peril and rushed to save others -- up those 
stairwells, into the flames, into the cockpit.

They were white and black and brown -- men and women and some children made 
up of all races, many faiths.  They were Americans and people from far 
corners of the world.  And they were snatched from us senselessly and much 
too soon -- but they lived well, and they live on in you.

Nine years have now passed.  In that time, you have shed more tears than we 
will ever know.  And though it must seem some days as though the world has 
moved on to other things, I say to you today that your loved ones endure in 
the heart of our nation, now and forever.

Our remembrance today also requires a certain reflection.  As a nation, and 
as individuals, we must ask ourselves how best to honor them -- those who 
died, those who sacrificed.  How do we preserve their legacy -- not just on 
this day, but every day?

We need not look far for our answer.  The perpetrators of this evil act 
didn’t simply attack America; they attacked the very idea of America itself 
-- all that we stand for and represent in the world.  And so the highest 
honor we can pay those we lost, indeed our greatest weapon in this ongoing 
war, is to do what our adversaries fear the most -- to stay true to who we 
are, as Americans; to renew our sense of common purpose; to say that we 
define the character of our country, and we will not let the acts of some 
small band of murderers who slaughter the innocent and cower in caves 
distort who we are.

They doubted our will, but as Americans we persevere.  Today, in 
Afghanistan and beyond, we have gone on the offensive and struck major 
blows against al Qaeda and its allies.  We will do what is necessary to 
protect our country, and we honor all those who serve to keep us safe.

They may seek to strike fear in us, but they are no match for our 
resilience.  We do not succumb to fear, nor will we squander the optimism 
that has always defined us as a people.  On a day when others sought to 
destroy, we have chosen to build, with a National Day of Service and 
Remembrance that summons the inherent goodness of the American people.

They may seek to exploit our freedoms, but we will not sacrifice the 
liberties we cherish or hunker down behind walls of suspicion and mistrust. 
 They may wish to drive us apart, but we will not give in to their hatred 
and prejudice.  For Scripture teaches us to “get rid of all bitterness, 
rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice.”

They may seek to spark conflict between different faiths, but as Americans 
we are not -- and never will be -- at war with Islam.  It was not a 
religion that attacked us that September day -- it was al Qaeda, a sorry 
band of men which perverts religion.  And just as we condemn intolerance 
and extremism abroad, so will we stay true to our traditions here at home 
as a diverse and tolerant nation.  We champion the rights of every 
American, including the right to worship as one chooses -- as service 
members and civilians from many faiths do just steps from here, at the very 
spot where the terrorists struck this building.

Those who attacked us sought to demoralize us, divide us, to deprive us of 
the very unity, the very ideals, that make America America -- those 
qualities that have made us a beacon of freedom and hope to billions around 
the world.  Today we declare once more we will never hand them that 
victory.  As Americans, we will keep alive the virtues and values that make 
us who we are and who we must always be.

For our cause is just.  Our spirit is strong.  Our resolve is unwavering.  
Like generations before us, let us come together today and all days to 
affirm certain inalienable rights, to affirm life and liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness.  On this day and the days to come, we choose to stay 
true to our best selves -- as one nation, under God, indivisible, with 
liberty and justice for all.

This is how we choose to honor the fallen -- your families, your friends, 
your fellow service members.  This is how we will keep alive the legacy of 
these proud and patriotic Americans.  This is how we will prevail in this 
great test of our time.  This is how we will preserve and protect the 
country that we love and pass it -- safer and stronger -- to future 
generations.

May God bless you and your families, and may God continue to bless the 
United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.