 

 

Barack Obama

Speech to the Hispanic Chamber of Conference on Education

delivered 10 March 2010

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Please, everybody have a seat. Thank you for the wonderful introduction, 
David. And thank you for the great work that you are doing each and every 
day. And I appreciate such a warm welcome. Some of you I've gotten a chance 
to know; many of you I'm meeting for the first time. But the spirit of the 
U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the desire to create jobs and provide 
opportunity to people who sometimes have been left out -- that's exactly 
what this administration is about. That's the essence of the American 
Dream. And so I'm very proud to have a chance to speak with all of you.

You know, every so often, throughout our history, a generation of Americans 
bears the responsibility of seeing this country through difficult times and 
protecting the dream of its founding for posterity. This is a 
responsibility that's fallen to our generation. Meeting it will require 
steering our nation's economy through a crisis unlike anything that we have 
seen in our time.

In the short term, that means jump-starting job creation and restarting 
lending, and restoring confidence in our markets and our financial system. 
But it also means taking steps that not only advance our recovery, but lay 
the foundation for lasting, shared prosperity.

I know there's some who believe we can only handle one challenge at a time. 
And they forget that Lincoln helped lay down the transcontinental railroad 
and passed the Homestead Act and created the National Academy of Sciences 
in the midst of civil war. Likewise, President Roosevelt didn't have the 
luxury of choosing between ending a depression and fighting a war; he had 
to do both. President Kennedy didn't have the luxury of choosing between 
civil rights and sending us to the moon. And we don't have the luxury of 
choosing between getting our economy moving now and rebuilding it over the 
long term.

America will not remain true to its highest ideals -- and America's place 
as a global economic leader will be put at risk -- unless we not only bring 
down the crushing cost of health care and transform the way we use energy, 
but also if we do -- if we don't do a far better job than we've been doing 
of educating our sons and daughters; unless we give them the knowledge and 
skills they need in this new and changing world.

For we know that economic progress and educational achievement have always 
gone hand in hand in America. The land-grant colleges and public high 
schools transformed the economy of an industrializing nation. The GI Bill 
generated a middle class that made America's economy unrivaled in the 20th 
century. Investments in math and science under President Eisenhower gave 
new opportunities to young scientists and engineers all across the country. 
It made possible somebody like a Sergei Brin to attend graduate school and 
found an upstart company called Google that would forever change our world.

The source of America's prosperity has never been merely how ably we 
accumulate wealth, but how well we educate our people. This has never been 
more true than it is today. In a 21st-century world where jobs can be 
shipped wherever there's an Internet connection, where a child born in 
Dallas is now competing with a child in New Delhi, where your best job 
qualification is not what you do, but what you know -- education is no 
longer just a pathway to opportunity and success, it's a prerequisite for 
success.

That's why workers without a four-year degree have borne the brunt of 
recent layoffs, Latinos most of all. That's why, of the 30 fastest growing 
occupations in America, half require a Bachelor's degree or more. By 2016, 
four out of every 10 new jobs will require at least some advanced education 
or training.

So let there be no doubt: The future belongs to the nation that best 
educates its citizens -- and my fellow Americans, we have everything we 
need to be that nation. We have the best universities, the most renowned 
scholars. We have innovative principals and passionate teachers and gifted 
students, and we have parents whose only priority is their child's 
education. We have a legacy of excellence, and an unwavering belief that 
our children should climb higher than we did.

And yet, despite resources that are unmatched anywhere in the world, we've 
let our grades slip, our schools crumble, our teacher quality fall short, 
and other nations outpace us. Let me give you a few statistics. In 8th 
grade math, we've fallen to 9th place. Singapore's middle-schoolers 
outperform ours three to one. Just a third of our 13- and 14-year-olds can 
read as well as they should. And year after year, a stubborn gap persists 
between how well white students are doing compared to their African 
American and Latino classmates. The relative decline of American education 
is untenable for our economy, it's unsustainable for our democracy, it's 
unacceptable for our children -- and we can't afford to let it continue.

What's at stake is nothing less than the American Dream. It's what drew my 
father and so many of your fathers and mothers to our shores in pursuit of 
an education. It's what led Linda Brown and Gonzalo and Felicitas Mendez to 
bear the standard of all who were attending separate and unequal schools. 
It's what has led generations of Americans to take on that extra job, to 
sacrifice the small pleasures, to scrimp and save wherever they can, in 
hopes of putting away enough, just enough, to give their child the 
education that they never had. It's that most American of ideas, that with 
the right education, a child of any race, any faith, any station, can 
overcome whatever barriers stand in their way and fulfill their God-given 
potential.

Of course, we've heard all this year after year after year after year -- 
and far too little has changed. Certainly it hasn't changed in too many 
overcrowded Latino schools; it hasn't changed in too many inner-city 
schools that are seeing dropout rates of over 50 percent. It's not changing 
not because we're lacking sound ideas or sensible plans -- in pockets of 
excellence across this country, we're seeing what children from all walks 
of life can and will achieve when we set high standards, have high 
expectations, when we do a good job of preparing them. Instead, it's 
because politics and ideology have too often trumped our progress that 
we're in the situation that we're in.

For decades, Washington has been trapped in the same stale debates that 
have paralyzed progress and perpetuated our educational decline. Too many 
supporters of my party have resisted the idea of rewarding excellence in 
teaching with extra pay, even though we know it can make a difference in 
the classroom. Too many in the Republican Party have opposed new 
investments in early education, despite compelling evidence of its 
importance. So what we get here in Washington is the same old debate about 
it's more money versus more reform, vouchers versus the status quo. There's 
been partisanship and petty bickering, but little recognition that we need 
to move beyond the worn fights of the 20th century if we're going to 
succeed in the 21st century.

I think you'd all agree that the time for finger-pointing is over. The time 
for holding us -- holding ourselves accountable is here. What's required is 
not simply new investments, but new reforms. It's time to expect more from 
our students. It's time to start rewarding good teachers, stop making 
excuses for bad ones. It's time to demand results from government at every 
level. It's time to prepare every child, everywhere in America, to 
out-compete any worker, anywhere in the world. It's time to give all 
Americans a complete and competitive education from the cradle up through a 
career. We've accepted failure for far too long. Enough is enough. 
America's entire education system must once more be the envy of the world 
-- and that's exactly what we intend to do.

That's exactly what the budget I'm submitting to Congress has begun to 
achieve. Now, at a time when we've inherited a trillion-dollar deficit, we 
will start by doing a little housekeeping, going through our books, cutting 
wasteful education programs. My outstanding Secretary of Education, Arne 
Duncan, who's here today -- stand up, Arne, so everybody can see you. I'm 
assuming you also saw my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. But Secretary 
Duncan will use only one test when deciding what ideas to support with your 
precious tax dollars: It's not whether an idea is liberal or conservative, 
but whether it works. And this will help free up resources for the first 
pillar of reforming our schools -- investing in early childhood 
initiatives.

This isn't just about keeping an eye on our children, it's about educating 
them. Studies show that children in early childhood education programs are 
more likely to score higher in reading and math, more likely to graduate 
from high school and attend college, more likely to hold a job, and more 
likely to earn more in that job. For every dollar we invest in these 
programs, we get nearly $10 back in reduced welfare rolls, fewer health 
care costs, and less crime. That's why the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act that I signed into law invests $5 billion in growing Early 
Head Start and Head Start, expanding access to quality child care for 
150,000 more children from working families, and doing more for children 
with special needs. And that's why we are going to offer 55,000 first-time 
parents regular visits from trained nurses to help make sure their children 
are healthy and prepare them for school and for life.

Even as we invest in early childhood education, let's raise the bar for 
early learning programs that are falling short. Now, today, some children 
are enrolled in excellent programs. Some children are enrolled in mediocre 
programs. And some are wasting away their most formative years in bad 
programs. That includes the one-fourth of all children who are Hispanic, 
and who will drive America's workforce of tomorrow, but who are less likely 
to have been enrolled in an early childhood education program than anyone 
else.

That's why I'm issuing a challenge to our states: Develop a cutting-edge 
plan to raise the quality of your early learning programs; show us how 
you'll work to ensure that children are better prepared for success by the 
time they enter kindergarten. If you do, we will support you with an Early 
Learning Challenge Grant that I call on Congress to enact. That's how we 
will reward quality and incentivize excellence, and make a down payment on 
the success of the next generation.

So that's the first pillar of our education reform agenda. The second, we 
will end what has become a race to the bottom in our schools and instead 
spur a race to the top by encouraging better standards and assessments. 
Now, this is an area where we are being outpaced by other nations. It's not 
that their kids are any smarter than ours -- it's that they are being 
smarter about how to educate their children. They're spending less time 
teaching things that don't matter, and more time teaching things that do. 
They're preparing their students not only for high school or college, but 
for a career. We are not. Our curriculum for 8th graders is two full years 
behind top performing countries. That's a prescription for economic 
decline. And I refuse to accept that America's children cannot rise to this 
challenge. They can, and they must, and they will meet higher standards in 
our time.

So let's challenge our states -- let's challenge our states to adopt 
world-class standards that will bring our curriculums to the 21st century. 
Today's system of 50 different sets of benchmarks for academic success 
means 4th grade readers in Mississippi are scoring nearly 70 points lower 
than students in Wyoming -- and they're getting the same grade. Eight of 
our states are setting their standards so low that their students may end 
up on par with roughly the bottom 40 percent of the world.

That's inexcusable. That's why I'm calling on states that are setting their 
standards far below where they ought to be to stop low-balling expectations 
for our kids. The solution to low test scores is not lowering standards -- 
it's tougher, clearer standards.  Standards like those in Massachusetts, 
where 8th graders are -- we have a Massachusetts contingent here. In 
Massachusetts, 8th graders are now tying for first -- first in the whole 
world in science. Other forward-thinking states are moving in the same 
direction by coming together as part of a consortium. And more states need 
to do the same. And I'm calling on our nation's governors and state 
education chiefs to develop standards and assessments that don't simply 
measure whether students can fill in a bubble on a test, but whether they 
possess 21st century skills like problem-solving and critical thinking and 
entrepreneurship and creativity.

That is what we'll help them do later this year -- that what we're going to 
help them do later this year when we finally make No Child Left Behind live 
up to its name by ensuring not only that teachers and principals get the 
funding that they need, but that the money is tied to results.  And Arne 
Duncan will also back up this commitment to higher standards with a fund to 
invest in innovation in our school districts.

Of course, raising standards alone will not make much of a difference 
unless we provide teachers and principals with the information they need to 
make sure students are prepared to meet those standards. And far too few 
states have data systems like the one in Florida that keep track of a 
student's education from childhood through college. And far too few 
districts are emulating the example of Houston and Long Beach, and using 
data to track how much progress a student is making and where that student 
is struggling. That's a resource that can help us improve student 
achievement, and tell us which students had which teachers so we can assess 
what's working and what's not. That's why we're making a major investment 
in this area that we will cultivate a new culture of accountability in 
America's schools.

Now, to complete our race to the top requires the third pillar of reform -- 
recruiting, preparing, and rewarding outstanding teachers. From the moment 
students enter a school, the most important factor in their success is not 
the color of their skin or the income of their parents, it's the person 
standing at the front of the classroom. That's why our Recovery Act will 
ensure that hundreds of thousands of teachers and school personnel are not 
laid off -- because those Americans are not only doing jobs they can't 
afford to lose, they're rendering a service our nation cannot afford to 
lose, either.

America's future depends on its teachers. And so today, I'm calling on a 
new generation of Americans to step forward and serve our country in our 
classrooms. If you want to make a difference in the life of our nation, if 
you want to make the most of your talents and dedication, if you want to 
make your mark with a legacy that will endure -- then join the teaching 
profession. America needs you. We need you in our suburbs. We need you in 
our small towns. We especially need you in our inner cities. We need you in 
classrooms all across our country.

And if you do your part, then we'll do ours. That's why we're taking steps 
to prepare teachers for their difficult responsibilities, and encourage 
them to stay in the profession. That's why we're creating new pathways to 
teaching and new incentives to bring teachers to schools where they're 
needed most. That's why we support offering extra pay to Americans who 
teach math and science to end a teacher shortage in those subjects. It's 
why we're building on the promising work being done in places like South 
Carolina's Teachers Advancement Program, and making an unprecedented 
commitment to ensure that anyone entrusted with educating our children is 
doing the job as well as it can be done.

Now, here's what that commitment means: It means treating teachers like the 
professionals they are while also holding them more accountable -Ð in up to 
150 more school districts. New teachers will be mentored by experienced 
ones. Good teachers will be rewarded with more money for improved student 
achievement, and asked to accept more responsibilities for lifting up their 
schools. Teachers throughout a school will benefit from guidance and 
support to help them improve.

And just as we've given our teachers all the support they need to be 
successful, we need to make sure our students have the teacher they need to 
be successful. And that means states and school districts taking steps to 
move bad teachers out of the classroom. But let me be clear -- Let me be 
clear -- the overwhelming number of teachers are doing an outstanding job 
under difficult circumstances. My sister is a teacher, so I know how tough 
teaching can be. But let me be clear: If a teacher is given a chance or two 
chances or three chances but still does not improve, there's no excuse for 
that person to continue teaching. I reject a system that rewards failure 
and protects a person from its consequences. The stakes are too high. We 
can afford nothing but the best when it comes to our children's teachers 
and the schools where they teach.

Now, that leads me to the fourth part of America's education strategy Ð- 
promoting innovation and excellence in America's schools. One of the places 
where much of that innovation occurs is in our most effective charter 
schools. And these are public schools founded by parents, teachers, and 
civic or community organizations with broad leeway to innovate -Ð schools I 
supported as a state legislator and a United States senator.

But right now, there are many caps on how many charter schools are allowed 
in some states, no matter how well they're preparing our students. That 
isn't good for our children, our economy, or our country. Of course, any 
expansion of charter schools must not result in the spread of mediocrity, 
but in the advancement of excellence. And that will require states adopting 
both a rigorous selection and review process to ensure that a charter 
school's autonomy is coupled with greater accountability Ð- as well as a 
strategy, like the one in Chicago, to close charter schools that are not 
working. Provided this greater accountability, I call on states to reform 
their charter rules, and lift caps on the number of allowable charter 
schools, wherever such caps are in place.

Now, even as we foster innovation in where our children are learning, let's 
also foster innovation in when our children are learning. We can no longer 
afford an academic calendar designed for when America was a nation of 
farmers who needed their children at home plowing the land at the end of 
each day. That calendar may have once made sense, but today it puts us at a 
competitive disadvantage. Our children -- listen to this -- our children 
spend over a month less in school than children in South Korea -- every 
year. That's no way to prepare them for a 21st century economy. That's why 
I'm calling for us not only to expand effective after-school programs, but 
to rethink the school day to incorporate more time -Ð whether during the 
summer or through expanded-day programs for children who need it.

Now, I know longer school days and school years are not wildly popular 
ideas.  Not with Malia and Sasha -- not in my family, and probably not in 
yours. But the challenges of a new century demand more time in the 
classroom. If they can do that in South Korea, we can do it right here in 
the United States of America.

Of course, no matter how innovative our schools or how effective our 
teachers, America cannot succeed unless our students take responsibility 
for their own education. That means showing up for school on time, paying 
attention in class, seeking out extra tutoring if it's needed, staying out 
of trouble. To any student who's watching, I say this: Don't even think 
about dropping out of school. Don't even think about it.

As I said a couple of weeks ago, dropping out is quitting on yourself, it's 
quitting on your country, and it's not an option -- not anymore. Not when 
our high school dropout rate has tripled in the past 30 years. Not when 
high school dropouts earn about half as much as college graduates. Not when 
Latino students are dropping out faster than just about anyone else. It's 
time for all of us, no matter what our backgrounds, to come together and 
solve this epidemic.

Stemming the tide of dropouts will require turning around our 
low-performing schools. Just 2,000 high schools in cities like Detroit and 
Los Angeles and Philadelphia produce over 50 percent of America's dropouts. 
And yet there are too few proven strategies to transform these schools. And 
there are too few partners to get the job done.

So today, I'm issuing a challenge to educators and lawmakers, parents and 
teachers alike: Let us all make turning around our schools our collective 
responsibility as Americans. And that will require new investments in 
innovative ideas -- that's why my budget invests in developing new 
strategies to make sure at-risk students don't give up on their education; 
new efforts to give dropouts who want to return to school the help they 
need to graduate; and new ways to put those young men and women who have 
left school back on a pathway to graduation.

Now, the fifth part of America's education strategy is providing every 
American with a quality higher education -Ð whether it's college or 
technical training. Never has a college degree been more important. Never 
has it been more expensive. And at a time when so many of our families are 
bearing enormous economic burdens, the rising cost of tuition threatens to 
shatter dreams. And that's why we will simplify federal college assistance 
forms so it doesn't take a Ph.D to apply for financial aid.

That's why we're already taking steps to make college or technical training 
affordable. For the first time ever, Pell Grants will not be subject to the 
politics of the moment or the whim of the market Ð- they will be a 
commitment that Congress is required to uphold each and every year. Not 
only that; because rising costs mean Pell Grants cover less than half as 
much tuition as they did 30 years ago, we're raising the maximum Pell Grant 
to $5,550 a year and indexing it above inflation. We're also providing a 
$2,500-a-year tuition tax credit for students from working families. And 
we're modernizing and expanding the Perkins Loan Program to make sure 
schools like UNLV don't get a tenth as many Perkins loans as schools like 
Harvard.

To help pay for all of this, we're putting students ahead of lenders by 
eliminating wasteful student loan subsidies that cost taxpayers billions 
each year. All in all, we are making college affordable for 7 million more 
students with a sweeping investment in our children's futures and America's 
success. And I call on Congress to join me and the American people by 
making these investments possible.

This is how we will help meet our responsibility as a nation to open the 
doors of college to every American. But it will also be the responsibility 
of colleges and universities to control spiraling costs. We can't just keep 
on putting more money in and universities and colleges not doing their part 
to hold down tuitions. And it's the responsibility of our students to walk 
through the doors of opportunity.

In just a single generation, America has fallen from 2nd place to 11th 
place in the portion of students completing college. That is unfortunate, 
but it's by no means irreversible. With resolve and the right investments, 
we can retake the lead once more. And that's why, in my address to the 
nation the other week, I called on Americans to commit to at least one year 
or more of higher education or career training, with the goal of having the 
highest proportion of college graduates in the world by the year 2020. And 
to meet that goal, we are investing $2.5 billion to identify and support 
innovative initiatives across the country that achieve results in helping 
students persist and graduate.

So let's not stop at education with college. Let's recognize a 21st century 
reality: Learning doesn't end in our early 20s. Adults of all ages need 
opportunities to earn new degrees and new skills -- especially in the 
current economic environment. That means working with all our universities 
and schools, including community colleges -- a great and undervalued asset 
-- to prepare workers for good jobs in high-growth industries; and to 
improve access to job training not only for young people who are just 
starting their careers, but for older workers who need new skills to change 
careers. And that's going to be one of the key tasks that Secretary Solis 
is involved with, is making sure that lifelong learning is a reality and a 
possibility for more Americans.

It's through initiatives like these that we'll see more Americans earn a 
college degree, or receive advanced training, and pursue a successful 
career. And that's why I'm calling on Congress to work with me to enact 
these essential reforms, and to reauthorize the Workforce Reinvestment Act. 
That's how we will round out a complete and competitive education in the 
United States of America.

So here's the bottom line: Yes, we need more money; yes, we need more 
reform; yes, we need to hold ourselves more accountable for every dollar we 
spend. But there's one more ingredient I want to talk about. No government 
policy will make any difference unless we also hold ourselves more 
accountable as parents -- because government, no matter how wise or 
efficient, cannot turn off the TV or put away the video games. Teachers, no 
matter how dedicated or effective, cannot make sure your child leaves for 
school on time and does their homework when they get back at night. These 
are things only a parent can do. These are things that our parents must do.

I say this not only as a father, but also as a son. When I was a child my 
mother and I lived overseas, and she didn't have the money to send me to 
the fancy international school where all the American kids went to school. 
So what she did was she supplemented my schooling with lessons from a 
correspondence course. And I can still picture her waking me up at 4:30 
a.m., five days a week, to go over some lessons before I went to school. 
And whenever I'd complain and grumble and find some excuse and say, "Awww, 
I'm sleepy," she'd patiently repeat to me her most powerful defense. She'd 
say, "This is no picnic for me either, buster."

And when you're a kid you don't think about the sacrifices they're making. 
She had to work; I just had to go to school. But she'd still wake up every 
day to make sure I was getting what I needed for my education. And it's 
because she did this day after day, week after week, because of all the 
other opportunities and breaks that I got along the way, all the sacrifices 
that my grandmother and my grandfather made along the way, that I can stand 
here today as President of the United States. It's because of the 
sacrifices -- See, I want every child in this country to have the same 
chance that my mother gave me, that my teachers gave me, that my college 
professors gave me, that America gave me.

You know these stories; you've lived them, as well. All of you have a 
similar story to tell. You know, it's -- I want children like Yvonne 
Bojorquez to have that chance. Yvonne is a student at Village Academy High 
School in California. Now, Village Academy is a 21st century school where 
cutting edge technologies are used in the classroom, where college prep and 
career training are offered to all who seek it, and where the motto is 
"respect, responsibility, and results."

Now, a couple of months ago, Yvonne and her class made a video talking 
about the impact that our struggling economy was having on their lives. And 
some of them spoke about their parents being laid off, or their homes 
facing foreclosure, or their inability to focus on school with everything 
that was happening at home. And when it was her turn to speak, Yvonne said: 
"We've all been affected by this economic crisis. [We] are all college 
bound students; we're all businessmen, and doctors and lawyers and all this 
great stuff. And we have all this potential -- but the way things are 
going, we're not going to be able to [fulfill it]."

It was heartbreaking that a girl so full of promise was so full of worry 
that she and her class titled their video, "Is anybody listening?" So, 
today, there's something I want to say to Yvonne and her class at Village 
Academy: I am listening. We are listening. America is listening. And we 
will not rest until your parents can keep your jobs -- we will not rest 
until your parents can keep their jobs and your families can keep their 
homes, and you can focus on what you should be focusing on -- your own 
education; until you can become the businessmen, doctors, and lawyers of 
tomorrow, until you can reach out and grasp your dreams for the future.

For in the end, Yvonne's dream is a dream shared by all Americans. It's the 
founding promise of our nation: That we can make of our lives what we will; 
that all things are possible for all people; and that here in America, our 
best days lie ahead. I believe that. I truly believe if I do my part, and 
you, the American people, do yours, then we will emerge from this crisis a 
stronger nation, and pass the dream of our founding on to posterity, ever 
safer than before.

Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America. 
Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.