 

 

Barack Obama

Address to the Troops in Afghanistan

delivered 28 March 2010, Clamshell, Bagram Air Field

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

How’s it going, Bagram? Well, you know, it turns out that the American 
people, they let me use this plane called Air Force One.  And so I thought 
I’d come over and say hello.

Couple of people I want to thank, in addition to Sergeant Major Eric 
Johnson for the outstanding introduction and his great service.  I want to 
thank Major General Mike Scaparrotti.  Thank you for your great work as 
commanding general.  I want to thank Ms. Dawn Liberi, who is the senior 
civilian representative of Regional Command East, for her outstanding work; 
and Brigadier General Steven Kwast, commander -- commander 455th Air 
Expeditionary Wing.  Thank you all for your outstanding service.  Give them 
a big round of applause.

Thank you for the unbelievable welcome.  I know this was on a little bit of 
short notice.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No worries.

THE PRESIDENT:  No worries.  It is great to be here at Bagram, and it’s 
great to see all the services.  We’ve got Air Force, we’ve got Army -- 
we’ve got Navy -- we’ve got some Marines in the house.  And we’ve got a lot 
of civilians here too -- who are making an outstanding contribution to this 
effort, and I’m honored to be joined by America’s outstanding civilian 
military leadership team here in Afghanistan, Ambassador Karl Eikenberry, 
who’s doing outstanding work, and the commander of our 43-nation coalition, 
General Stan McChrystal.  The two of them together have paired up to do an 
extraordinarily difficult task, but they are doing it extraordinarily well 
and we are proud of them.  Please give your outstanding team a big round of 
applause.  They’ve got my full confidence and my full support.

We’re also joined by troops from some of our coalition partners, because 
this is not simply an American mission or even just a NATO mission.  Al 
Qaeda and their extremist allies are a threat to the people of Afghanistan 
and a threat to the people of America, but they’re also a threat to people 
all around the world, and that’s why we’re so proud to have our coalition 
partners here with us.  Thank you very much for the great work that you do. 
 We salute you and we honor you for all the sacrifices you make, and you 
are a true friend of the United States of America.  Thank you very much.

And we also salute the members of the Afghan National Army who are fighting 
alongside all of you.  They’re risking their lives to protect their 
country.  And as I told President Karzai today, the United States is a 
partner but our intent is to make sure that the Afghans have the capacity 
to provide for their own security.  That is core to our mission, and we are 
proud of the work that they are doing and the continuing increased capacity 
that we’re seeing out of Afghan national security forces.  So thank you 
very much for the great work you’re doing to take responsibility for 
security here in your own country.

And to the Afghan people, I want to say that I’m honored to be a guest in 
your country.  Now, the Afghans have suffered for decades -- decades of 
war.  But we are here to help Afghans forge a hard-won peace while 
realizing the extraordinary potential of the Afghan people, Afghanistan’s 
sons and daughters, from the soldiers and the police to the farmers and the 
young students.  And we want to build a lasting partnership founded upon 
mutual interests and mutual respect, and I’m looking forward to returning 
to Afghanistan many times in the years to come.

Now, I know for most of you, you didn’t get a lot of notice that I was 
coming.  But I want you to understand, there’s no visit that I considered 
more important than this visit I’m making right now, because I have no 
greater honor than serving as your Commander-in-Chief.  And it is a 
privilege to look out and see the extraordinary efforts of America’s sons 
and daughters here in Afghanistan.  So my main job here today is to say 
thank you on behalf of the entire American people.

You are part of the finest military in the history of the world, and we are 
proud of you.  And so I want you to know that everybody back home is proud 
of you.  Everybody back home is grateful.  And everybody understands the 
sacrifices that you have made and your families have made to keep America 
safe and to keep America secure in this vital mission.

And I know it’s not easy.  You’re far away from home.  You miss your kids.  
You miss your spouses, your family, your friends.  Some of you, this is 
your second or your third or your fourth tour of duty.  I’ll tell you right 
now the same thing that I said at West Point last December.  If I thought 
for a minute that America’s vital interests were not served, were not at 
stake here in Afghanistan, I would order all of you home right away.

So I want you to know, I want every American serving in Afghanistan, 
military and civilian, to know, whether you’re working the flight line here 
at Bagram or patrolling a village down in Helmand, whether you’re standing 
watch at a forward operating base or training our Afghan partners or 
working with the Afghan government, your services are absolutely necessary, 
absolutely essential to America’s safety and security.  Those folks back 
home are relying on you.

We can’t forget why we’re here.  We did not choose this war.  This was not 
an act of America wanting to expand its influence; of us wanting to meddle 
in somebody else’s business.  We were attacked viciously on 9/11.  
Thousands of our fellow countrymen and women were killed.  And this is the 
region where the perpetrators of that crime, al Qaeda, still base their 
leadership.  Plots against our homeland, plots against our allies, plots 
against the Afghan and Pakistani people are taking place as we speak right 
here.  And if this region slides backwards, if the Taliban retakes this 
country and al Qaeda can operate with impunity, then more American lives 
will be at stake.  The Afghan people will lose their chance at progress and 
prosperity.  And the world will be significantly less secure.

And as long as I’m your Commander-in-Chief, I am not going to let that 
happen.  That’s why you are here.  I’ve made a promise to all of you who 
serve.  I will never send you into harm’s way unless it’s absolutely 
necessary.  I anguish in thinking about the sacrifices that so many of you 
make.  That’s why I promise I will never send you out unless it is 
necessary.

But that’s only part of the promise, because the other part of the promise 
is that when it is absolutely necessary, you will be backed up by a clear 
mission and the right strategy to finish the job, to get the job done.  And 
I am confident all of you are going to get the job done right here in 
Afghanistan.  I am confident of that.

That’s why I ordered more troops and civilians here into Afghanistan 
shortly after taking office.  That’s why we took a hard look and forged a 
new strategy and committed more resources in December.  That’s why we 
pushed our friends and allies and partners to pony up more resources 
themselves, more commitments of aid, and additional forces and trainers.

Our broad mission is clear:  We are going to disrupt and dismantle, defeat 
and destroy al Qaeda and its extremist allies.  That is our mission.  And 
to accomplish that goal, our objectives here in Afghanistan are also clear: 
 We’re going to deny al Qaeda safe haven.  We’re going to reverse the 
Taliban’s momentum.  We’re going to strengthen the capacity of Afghan 
security forces and the Afghan government so that they can begin taking 
responsibility and gain confidence of the Afghan people.

And our strategy includes a military effort that takes the fight to the 
Taliban while creating the conditions for greater security and a transition 
to the Afghans; but also a civilian effort that improves the daily lives of 
the Afghan people, and combats corruption; and a partnership with Pakistan 
and its people, because we can’t uproot extremists and advance security and 
opportunity unless we succeed on both sides of the border.  Most of you 
understand that.

Many of the troops that I ordered to Afghanistan have begun to arrive, and 
more are on the way.  And we’ll continue to work with Congress to make sure 
that you’ve got the equipment that you need, particularly as we complete 
our drawdown in Iraq.  We’re providing more helicopters, we’re providing 
more intelligence and reconnaissance capabilities, more special operations 
forces, more armored vehicles that can save lives.

And here in Afghanistan you’ve gone on the offensive.  And the American 
people back home are noticing.  We have seen a huge increase in support in 
-- stateside, because people understand the kinds of sacrifices that you 
guys are making, and the clarity of mission that you’re bringing to bear.

And together with our coalition and Afghan partners, our troops have pushed 
the Taliban out of their stronghold in Marja.  We’ve changed the way we 
operate and interact with the Afghan people.  We see Afghans reclaiming 
their communities, and we see new partnerships that will help them build 
their own future and increase their security.

And across the border, Pakistan is mounting major offensives.  We’ve seen 
violent extremists pushed out of their sanctuaries.  We’ve struck major 
blows against al Qaeda leadership as well as the Taliban’s.  They are 
hunkered down.  They’re worried about their own safety.  It’s harder for 
them to move, it’s harder for them to train and to plot and to attack, and 
all of that makes America safer.  And we are going to keep them on the run 
because that is what’s going to be required in order to assure that our 
families back home have the security that they need.  That’s the work that 
you are doing.

So thanks to you, there’s been progress these last several months.  But we 
know there are going to be some difficult days ahead.  There’s going to be 
setbacks.  We face a determined enemy.  But we also know this:  The United 
States of America does not quit once it starts on something.  You don’t 
quit, the American armed services does not quit, we keep at it, we 
persevere, and together with our partners we will prevail.  I am absolutely 
confident of that.

And I also want you to know that as you’re doing your duty here, we’re 
going to do right by you back home.  We’re going to help take care of your 
families, and that’s why the First Lady Michelle Obama visited with 
military families and makes sure that their needs are met.  That’s why she 
stays after me once she gets home, when I’m at the White House.  And we’re 
going to make sure that we are keeping to improve your pay and your 
benefits, but also things like childcare and support that ensure that 
you’ve got a little bit of security knowing your family is being looked 
after back home.

And we’ll be there for your when you come home.  It’s why we’re improving 
care for our wounded warriors, especially those with PTSD and traumatic 
brain injuries.  We’re moving forward with the Post-9/11 GI Bill so you and 
your families can pursue your dreams.  And we’ve made the biggest increase 
in the VA budget in 30 years, because we’re going to keep our sacred trust 
with all those who serve.

You’ve been there for us, tour after tour, year after year, at a time when 
too many American institutions have let us down, when too many institutions 
have put short-term gain in front of a commitment to duty and a commitment 
to what’s right.  You’ve met your responsibilities, you’ve done your duty 
-- not just when it’s easy.  That’s why you’ve inspired your fellow 
Americans.  That’s why you inspire me.  That’s why you’ve earned your place 
next to the very greatest of American generations.

And all of you represent the virtues and the values that America so 
desperately needs right now:  sacrifice and selflessness, honor and 
decency.  That’s why you’re here today.  That’s what you represent.

I’ve seen your sense of purpose and your willingness to step forward and 
serve in a time of danger.  I’ve seen it from the Marines I’ve met at Camp 
Lejeune to the cadets at West Point, from the midshipmen at Annapolis to 
the troops I’ve met in Iraq, and at bases across America and here in 
Afghanistan.  I’ve seen your courage and your heroism and the story of a 
young Sergeant First Class named Jared Monti who gave his life here in 
Afghanistan to save his fellow soldiers and his parents.  I was proud to 
present with our nation’s highest military declaration, the Medal of Honor. 
 I’ve seen your tenacity -- I’ve seen your tenacity and determination in 
our wounded warriors in Landstuhl and Walter Reed -- Americans fighting to 
stand again and to walk again and to get back with -- get back with their 
units; incredible dedication, incredible focus, incredible pride.  And I’ve 
been humbled by your sacrifice and the solemn homecoming of flag-draped 
coffins at Dover, to the headstones in Section 60 at Arlington where the 
fallen from this war rest in peace alongside the fellow heroes of America’s 
story.

So here in Afghanistan each one of you is part of an unbroken line of 
American service members who’ve sacrificed for over two centuries.  You’re 
protecting your fellow citizens from danger.  You’re serving alongside old 
allies and new friends.  You’re bringing hope and opportunity to a people 
who have known a lot of pain and a lot of suffering.

And I know that sometimes when you’re watching TV, the politics back home 
may look a little messy, and people are yelling and hollering, and 
Democrats this and Republicans that.  I want you to understand this:  
There’s no daylight when it comes to support of all of you.  There’s no 
daylight when it comes to supporting our troops.  That brings us together.  
We are all incredibly proud.  We all honor what you do.  And all of you 
show all of America what’s possible when people come together, not based on 
color or creed, not based on faith or station, but based on a commitment to 
serve together, to bleed together and to succeed together as one people, as 
Americans.

Make no mistake, this fight matters to us.  It matters to us, it matters to 
our allies, it matters to the Afghan people.  Al Qaeda and the violent 
extremists who you’re fighting against want to destroy.  But all of you 
want to build -- and that is something essential about America.  They’ve 
got no respect for human life.  You see dignity in every human being.  
That’s part of what we value as Americans.  They want to drive races and 
regions and religions apart.  You want to bring people together and see the 
world move forward together.  They offer fear, in other words, and you 
offer hope.

And that’s why it is so important that you know that the entire country 
stands behind you.  That’s why you put on that uniform, because in an 
uncertain world, the United States of America will always stand up for the 
security of nations and the dignity of human beings.  That’s who we are.  
That is what we do.

Much has happened to our country and to the world since 9/11.  But I’m 
confident that so long as brave men and women like you -- Americans who are 
willing to serve selflessly half a world away on behalf of their fellow 
citizens and the dreams of people they’ve never met -- so long as there are 
folks like you, then I’m confident that our nation will endure, and hope 
will overcome fear.  And I am confident that better days lie ahead.

So thank you very much, everybody.  God bless you.  God bless the United 
States Armed Forces.  And God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Souza)  Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.