 

 

Barack Obama

Remarks and Press Conference on the Gulf Oil Spill Disaster

delivered 27 May 2010, The White House, Washington, D.C.

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody. Before I take your questions, I want to update 
the American people on the status of the BP oil spill -- a catastrophe that 
is causing tremendous hardship in the Gulf Coast, damaging a precious 
ecosystem, and one that led to the death of 11 workers who lost their lives 
in the initial explosion.

Yesterday, the federal government gave BP approval to move forward with a 
procedure known as a “top kill” to try to stop the leak. This involves 
plugging the well with densely packed mud to prevent any more oil from 
escaping. And given the complexity of this procedure and the depth of the 
leak, this procedure offers no guarantee of success. But we’re exploring 
any reasonable strategies to try and save the Gulf from a spill that may 
otherwise last until the relief wells are finished -- and that's a process 
that could take months.

The American people should know that from the moment this disaster began, 
the federal government has been in charge of the response effort. As far as 
I’m concerned, BP is responsible for this horrific disaster, and we will 
hold them fully accountable on behalf of the United States as well as the 
people and communities victimized by this tragedy. We will demand that they 
pay every dime they owe for the damage they’ve done and the painful losses 
that they’ve caused. And we will continue to take full advantage of the 
unique technology and expertise they have to help stop this leak.

But make no mistake: BP is operating at our direction. Every key decision 
and action they take must be approved by us in advance. I’ve designated 
Admiral Thad Allen -- who has nearly four decades of experience responding 
to such disasters -- as the National Incident Commander, and if he orders 
BP to do something to respond to this disaster, they are legally bound to 
do it. So, for example, when they said they would drill one relief well to 
stem this leak we demanded a backup and ordered them to drill two. And they 
are in the process of drilling two.

As we devise strategies to try and stop this leak, we’re also relying on 
the brightest minds and most advanced technology in the world. We’re 
relying on a team of scientists and engineers from our own national 
laboratories and from many other nations -– a team led by our Energy 
Secretary and Nobel Prize-winning physicist, Stephen Chu. And we’re relying 
on experts who’ve actually dealt with oil spills from across the globe, 
though none this challenging.

The federal government is also directing the effort to contain and clean up 
the damage from the spill -– which is now the largest effort of its kind in 
U.S. history. In this case, the federal, state, and local governments have 
the resources and expertise to play an even more direct role in the 
response effort. And I will be discussing this further when I make my 
second trip to Louisiana tomorrow. But so far we have about 20,000 people 
in the region who are working around the clock to contain and clean up this 
oil. We have activated about 1,400 members of the National Guard in four 
states. We have the Coast Guard on site. We have more than 1,300 vessels 
assisting in the containment and cleanup efforts. We’ve deployed over 3 
million feet of total boom to stop the oil from coming on shore -– and 
today more than 100,000 feet of boom is being surged to Louisiana parishes 
that are facing the greatest risk from the oil.

So we’ll continue to do whatever is necessary to protect and restore the 
Gulf Coast. For example, Admiral Allen just announced that we’re moving 
forward with a section of Governor Jindal’s barrier island proposal that 
could help stop oil from coming ashore. It will be built in an area that is 
most at risk and where the work can be most quickly completed.

We’re also doing whatever it takes to help the men and women whose 
livelihoods have been disrupted and even destroyed by this spill -- 
everyone from fishermen to restaurant and hotel owners. So far the Small 
Business Administration has approved loans and allowed many small 
businesses to defer existing loan payments. At our insistence, BP is paying 
economic injury claims, and we’ll make sure that when all is said and done, 
the victims of this disaster will get the relief that they are owed. We’re 
not going to abandon our fellow citizens. We’ll help them recover and we 
will help them rebuild.

And in the meantime, I should also say that Americans can help by 
continuing to visit the communities and beaches of the Gulf Coast. I was 
talking to the governors just a couple of days ago, and they wanted me to 
remind everybody that except for three beaches in Louisiana, all of the 
Gulf’s beaches are open. They are safe and they are clean.

As we continue our response effort, we’re also moving quickly on steps to 
ensure that a catastrophe like this never happens again. I’ve said before 
that producing oil here in America is an essential part of our overall 
energy strategy. But all drilling must be safe.

In recent months, I’ve spoken about the dangers of too much -- I’ve heard 
people speaking about the dangers of too much government regulation. And I 
think we can all acknowledge there have been times in history when the 
government has overreached. But in this instance, the oil industry’s cozy 
and sometimes corrupt relationship with government regulators meant little 
or no regulation at all.

When Secretary Salazar took office, he found a Minerals and Management 
Service that had been plagued by corruption for years -- this was the 
agency charged with not only providing permits, but also enforcing laws 
governing oil drilling. And the corruption was underscored by a recent 
Inspector General’s report that covered activity which occurred prior to 
2007 -- a report that can only be described as appalling. And Secretary 
Salazar immediately took steps to clean up that corruption. But this oil 
spill has made clear that more reforms are needed.

For years, there has been a scandalously close relationship between oil 
companies and the agency that regulates them. That’s why we’ve decided to 
separate the people who permit the drilling from those who regulate and 
ensure the safety of the drilling.

I also announced that no new permits for drilling new wells will go forward 
until a 30-day safety and environmental review was conducted. That review 
is now complete. Its initial recommendations include aggressive new 
operating standards and requirements for offshore energy companies, which 
we will put in place.

Additionally, after reading the report’s recommendations with Secretary 
Salazar and other members of my Administration, we’re going to be ordering 
the following actions: First, we will suspend the planned exploration of 
two locations off the coast of Alaska. Second, we will cancel the pending 
lease sale in the Gulf of Mexico and the proposed lease sale off the coast 
of Virginia. Third, we will continue the existing moratorium and suspend 
the issuance of new permits to drill new deepwater wells for six months. 
And four, we will suspend action on 33 deepwater exploratory wells 
currently being drilled in the Gulf of Mexico.

What’s also been made clear from this disaster is that for years the oil 
and gas industry has leveraged such power that they have effectively been 
allowed to regulate themselves. One example: Under current law, the 
Interior Department has only 30 days to review an exploration plan 
submitted by an oil company. That leaves no time for the appropriate 
environmental review. They result is, they are continually waived. And this 
is just one example of a law that was tailored by the industry to serve 
their needs instead of the public’s. So Congress needs to address these 
issues as soon as possible, and my Administration will work with them to do 
so.

Still, preventing such a catastrophe in the future will require further 
study and deeper reform. That’s why last Friday, I also signed an executive 
order establishing the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil 
Spill and Offshore Drilling. While there are a number of ongoing 
investigations, including an independent review by the National Academy of 
Engineering, the purpose of this commission is to consider both the root 
causes of the disaster and offer options on what safety and environmental 
precautions are necessary.

If the laws on our books are inadequate to prevent such a spill, or if we 
did not enforce those laws, then I want to know. I want to know what worked 
and what didn’t work in our response to the disaster, and where oversight 
of the oil and gas industry broke down.

Let me make one final point. More than anything else, this economic and 
environmental tragedy -- and it’s a tragedy -- underscores the urgent need 
for this nation to develop clean, renewable sources of energy. Doing so 
will not only reduce threats to our environment, it will create a new, 
homegrown, American industry that can lead to countless new businesses and 
new jobs.

We’ve talked about doing this for decades, and we’ve made significant 
strides over the last year when it comes to investing in renewable energy 
and energy efficiency. The House of Representatives has already passed a 
bill that would finally jumpstart a permanent transition to a clean energy 
economy, and there is currently a plan in the Senate -- a plan that was 
developed with ideas from Democrats and Republicans -- that would achieve 
the same goal.

If nothing else, this disaster should serve as a wake-up call that it’s 
time to move forward on this legislation. It’s time to accelerate the 
competition with countries like China, who have already realized the future 
lies in renewable energy. And it’s time to seize that future ourselves. So 
I call on Democrats and Republicans in Congress, working with my 
Administration, to answer this challenge once and for all.

I'll close by saying this: This oil spill is an unprecedented disaster. The 
fact that the source of the leak is a mile under the surface, where no 
human being can go, has made it enormously difficult to stop. But we are 
relying on every resource and every idea, every expert and every bit of 
technology, to work to stop it. We will take ideas from anywhere, but we 
are going to stop it.

And I know that doesn’t lessen the enormous sense of anger and frustration 
felt by people on the Gulf and so many Americans. Every day I see this leak 
continue I am angry and frustrated as well. I realize that this entire 
response effort will continue to be filtered through the typical prism of 
politics, but that’s not what I care about right now. What I care about 
right now is the containment of this disaster and the health and safety and 
livelihoods of our neighbors in the Gulf Coast. And for as long as it 
takes, I intend to use the full force of the federal government to protect 
our fellow citizens and the place where they live. I can assure you of 
that.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

All right. I’m going to take some questions. I’m going to start with 
Jennifer Loven  .


Thank you, Mr. President. This is on, right?

THE PRESIDENT: Yes.

Q: You just said that the federal government is in charge, and officials in 
your Administration have said this repeatedly. Yet how do you explain that 
we’re more than five weeks into this crisis and that BP is not always doing 
as you’re asking, for example with the type of dispersant that’s being 
used? And if I might add one more; to the many people in the Gulf who, as 
you said, are angry and frustrated and feel somewhat abandoned, what do you 
say about whether your personal involvement, your personal engagement, has 
been as much as it should be either privately or publicly?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I’ll take the second question first, if you don’t 
mind. The day that the rig collapsed and fell to the bottom of the ocean, I 
had my team in the Oval Office that first day. Those who think that we were 
either slow on our response or lacked urgency don’t know the facts. This 
has been our highest priority since this crisis occurred.

Personally, I’m briefed every day and have probably had more meetings on 
this issue than just about any issue since we did our Afghan review. And we 
understood from day one the potential enormity of this crisis and acted 
accordingly. So when it comes to the moment this crisis occurred, moving 
forward, this entire White House and this entire federal government has 
been singularly focused on how do we stop the leak, and how do we prevent 
and mitigate the damage to our coastlines.

The challenge we have is that we have not seen a leak like this before, and 
so people are going to be frustrated until it stops. And I understand that. 
And if you’re living on the coast and you see this sludge coming at you, 
you are going to be continually upset, and from your perspective, the 
response is going to be continually inadequate until it actually stops. And 
that's entirely appropriate and understandable.

But from Thad Allen, our National Incident Coordinator, through the most 
junior member of the Coast Guard, or the under-under-under secretary of 
NOAA, or any of the agencies under my charge, they understand this is the 
single most important thing that we have to get right.

Now, with respect to the relationship between our government and BP, the 
United States government has always been in charge of making sure that the 
response is appropriate. BP, under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, is 
considered the responsible party, which basically means they’ve got to pay 
for everything that's done to both stop the leak and mitigate the damage. 
They do so under our supervision, and any major decision that they make has 
to be done under the approval of Thad Allen, the National Incident 
Coordinator.

So this notion that somehow the federal government is sitting on the 
sidelines and for the three or four or five weeks we’ve just been letting 
BP make a whole bunch of decisions is simply not true.

What is true is that when it comes to stopping the leak down below, the 
federal government does not possess superior technology to BP. This is 
something, by the way -- going back to my involvement -- two or three days 
after this happened, we had a meeting down in the Situation Room in which I 
specifically asked Bob Gates and Mike Mullen what assets do we have that 
could potentially help that BP or other oil companies around the world do 
not have. We do not have superior technology when it comes to dealing with 
this particular crisis.

Now, one of the legitimate questions that I think needs to be asked is 
should the federal government have such capacity. And that's part of what 
the role of the commission is going to be, is to take a look and say, do we 
make sure that a consortium of oil companies pay for specifically 
technology to deal with this kind of incident when it happens. Should that 
response team that’s effective be under the direct charge of the United 
States government or a private entity? But for now, BP has the best 
technology, along with the other oil companies, when it comes to actually 
capping the well down there.

Now, when it comes to what’s happening on the surface, we’ve been much more 
involved in the in-situ burns, in the skimming. Those have been happening 
more or less under our direction, and we feel comfortable about many of the 
steps that have been taken.

There have been areas where there have been disagreements, and I'll give 
you two examples. Initially on this top kill, there were questions in terms 
of how effective it could be, but also what were the risks involved, 
because we’re operating at such a pressurized level, a mile underwater and 
in such frigid temperatures, that the reactions of various compounds and 
various approaches had to be calibrated very carefully. That’s when I sent 
Steven Chu down, the Secretary of Energy, and he brought together a team, 
basically a brain trust, of some of the smartest folks we have at the 
National Labs and in academia to essentially serve as a oversight board 
with BP engineers and scientists in making calculations about how much mud 
could you pour down, how fast, without risking potentially the whole thing 
blowing.

So in that situation you’ve got the federal government directly overseeing 
what BP is doing, and Thad Allen is giving authorization when finally we 
feel comfortable that the risks of attempting a top kill, for example, are 
sufficiently reduced that it needs to be tried.

I already mentioned a second example, which is they wanted to drill one 
relief well. The experience has been that when you drill one relief well, 
potentially you keep on missing the mark. And so it’s important to have two 
to maximize the speed and effectiveness of a relief well.

And right now Thad Allen is down there, because I think he -- it’s his view 
that some of the allocation of boom or other efforts to protect shorelines 
hasn’t been as nimble as it needs to be. And he said so publicly. And so he 
will be making sure that, in fact, the resources to protect the shorelines 
are there immediately.

But here’s the broad point: There has never been a point during this crisis 
in which this Administration, up and down up the line, in all these 
agencies, hasn’t, number one, understood this was my top priority -- 
getting this stopped and then mitigating the damage; and number two, 
understanding that if BP wasn’t doing what our best options were, we were 
fully empowered and instruct them, to tell them to do something different.

And so if you take a look at what’s transpired over the last four to five 
weeks, there may be areas where there have been disagreements, for example, 
on dispersants, and these are complicated issues. But overall, the 
decisions that have been made have been reflective of the best science that 
we’ve got, the best expert opinion that we have, and have been weighing 
various risks and various options to allocate our resources in such a way 
that we can get this fixed as quickly as possible.

Jake Tapper  .


Q: Thanks, Mr. President. You say that everything that could be done is 
being done, but there are those in the region and those industry experts 
who say that’s not true. Governor Jindal obviously had this proposal for a 
barrier. They say that if that had been approved when they first asked for 
it, they would have 10 miles up already. There are fishermen down there who 
want to work, who want to help, haven’t been trained, haven’t been told to 
go do so. There are industry experts who say that they’re surprised that 
tankers haven’t been sent out there to vacuum, as was done in ’93 outside 
Saudi Arabia. And then, of course, there’s the fact that there are 17 
countries that have offered to help and it’s only been accepted from two 
countries, Norway and Mexico. How can you say that everything that can be 
done is being done with all these experts and all these officials saying 
that’s not true?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, let me distinguish between -- if the question is, 
Jake, are we doing everything perfectly out there, then the answer is 
absolutely not. We can always do better. If the question is, are we, each 
time there is an idea, evaluating it and making a decision, is this the 
best option that we have right now, based on how quickly we can stop this 
leak and how much damage can we mitigate -- then the answer is yes.

So let’s take the example of Governor Jindal’s barrier islands idea. When I 
met with him when I was down there two weeks ago, I said I will make sure 
that our team immediately reviews this idea, that the Army Corps of 
Engineers is looking at the feasibility of it, and if they think -- if they 
tell me that this is the best approach to dealing with this problem, then 
we’re going to move quickly to execute it. If they have a disagreement with 
Governor Jindal’s experts as to whether this would be effective or not, 
whether it was going to be cost-effective, given the other things that need 
to be done, then we’ll sit down and try to figure that out.

And that essentially is what happened, which is why today you saw an 
announcement where, from the Army Corps’ perspective, there were some areas 
where this might work, but there are some areas where it would be 
counter-productive and not a good use of resources.

So the point is, on each of these points that you just mentioned, the job 
of our response team is to say, okay, if 17 countries have offered 
equipment and help, let’s evaluate what they’ve offered: How fast can it 
get here? Is it actually going to be redundant, or will it actually add to 
the overall effort -- because in some cases, more may not actually be 
better. And decisions have been made based on the best information 
available that says here’s what we need right now. It may be that a week 
from now or two weeks from now or a month from now the offers from some of 
those countries might be more effectively utilized.

Now, it’s going to be entirely possible in a operation this large that 
mistakes are made, judgments prove to be wrong; that people say in 
retrospect, you know, if we could have done that or we did that, this might 
have turned out differently -- although in a lot of cases it may be 
speculation. But the point that I was addressing from Jennifer was, does 
this Administration maintain a constant sense of urgency about this, and 
are we examining every recommendation, every idea that's out there, and 
making our best judgment as to whether these are the right steps to take, 
based on the best experts that we know of. And on that answer, the answer 
is yes -- or on that question, the answer is yes.

Chuck Todd  .

Q: I just want to follow up on the question as it has to do with the 
relationship between the government and BP. It seems that you’ve made the 
case on the technical issues. But onshore, Admiral Allen admitted the other 
day in a White House briefing that they needed to be pushed harder. Senator 
Mary Landrieu this morning said it’s not clear who’s in charge, that the 
government should be in charge. Why not ask BP to simply step aside on the 
onshore stuff, make it an entirely government thing? Obviously BP pays for 
it, but why not ask them to just completely step aside on that front?

And then also, can you respond to all the Katrina comparisons that people 
are making about this with yourself?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I’ll take your second question first. I’ll leave it to 
you guys to make those comparisons, and make judgments on it, because what 
I’m spending my time thinking about is how do we solve the problem. And 
when the problem is solved and people look back and do an assessment of all 
the various decisions that were made, I think people can make a historical 
judgment. And I’m confident that people are going to look back and say that 
this Administration was on top of what was an unprecedented crisis.

In terms of shoreline protection, the way this thing has been set up under 
the oil spill act of 1990 -- Oil Pollution Act -- is that BP has contracts 
with a whole bunch of contractors on file in the event that there is an oil 
spill, and as soon as the Deep Horizon well went down, then their job is to 
activate those and start paying them. So a big chunk of the 20,000 who are 
already down there are being paid by BP.

The Coast Guard’s job is to approve and authorize whatever BP is doing. 
Now, what Admiral Allen said today, and the reason he’s down there today, 
is that if BP’s contractors are not moving as nimbly and as effectively as 
they need to be, then it is already the power of the federal government to 
redirect those resources. I guess the point being that the Coast Guard and 
our military are potentially already in charge as long as we’ve got good 
information and we are making the right decisions.

And if there are mistakes that are being made right now, we’ve got the 
power to correct those decisions. We don’t have to necessarily reconfigure 
the setup down there. What we do have to make sure of is, is that on each 
and every one of the decisions that are being made about what beaches to 
protect, what’s going to happen with these marshes, if we build a barrier 
island, how is this going to have an impact on the ecology of the area over 
the long term -- in each of those decisions, we’ve got to get it right.

FQ [Todd]: You understand the credibility of BP seems to be so bad -- that 
there’s almost no trust that they’re getting --

THE PRESIDENT: I understand. And part of the purpose of this press 
conference is to explain to the folks down in the Gulf that ultimately it 
is our folks down there who are responsible. If they’re not satisfied with 
something that’s happening, then they need to let us know and we will 
immediately question BP and ask them why isn’t X, Y, Z happening. And those 
skimmers, those boats, that boom, the people who are out there collecting 
some of the oil that’s already hit shore, they can be moved and redirected 
at any point.

And so, understandably, people are frustrated, because, look, this is a big 
mess coming to shore and even if we’ve got a perfect organizational 
structure, spots are going to be missed, oil is going to go to places that 
maybe somebody thinks it could have been prevented from going. There is 
going to be damage that is heartbreaking to see. People’s livelihoods are 
going to be affected in painful ways. The best thing for us to do is to 
make sure that every decision about how we’re allocating the resources that 
we’ve got is being made based on the best expert advice that’s available.

So I’ll take one last stab at this, Chuck. The problem I don’t think is 
that BP is off running around doing whatever it wants and nobody is minding 
the store. Inevitably in something this big, there are going to be places 
where things fall short. But I want everybody to understand today that our 
teams are authorized to direct BP in the same way that they’d be authorized 
to direct those same teams if they were technically being paid by the 
federal government. In either circumstance, we’ve got the authority that we 
need. We just got to make sure that we’re exercising it effectively.

All right, Steve Thomma  .

Q: Thank you, sir. On April 21st, Admiral Allen tells us the government 
started dispatching equipment rapidly to the Gulf, and you just said on day 
one you recognized the enormity of this situation. Yet here we are 39, 40 
days later, you’re still having to rush more equipment, more boom. There 
are still areas of the coast unprotected. Why is it taking so long? And did 
you really act from day one for a worst-case scenario?

THE PRESIDENT: We did. Part of the problem you’ve got is -- let’s take the 
example of boom. The way the plans have been developed -- and I’m not an 
expert on this, but this is as it’s been explained to me -- pre-deploying 
boom would have been the right thing to do; making sure that there is boom 
right there in the region at various spots where you could anticipate, if 
there was a spill of this size, the boom would be right there ready to 
grab.

Unfortunately, that wasn’t always the case. And so this goes back to 
something that Jake asked earlier. When it comes to the response since the 
crisis happened, I am very confident that the federal government has acted 
consistently with a sense of urgency.

When it comes to prior to this accident happening, I think there was a lack 
of anticipating what the worst-case scenarios would be. And that's a 
problem. And part of that problem was lodged in MMS and the way that that 
agency was structured. That was the agency in charge of providing 
permitting and making decisions in terms of where drilling could take 
place, but also in charge of enforcing the safety provisions. And as I 
indicated before, the IG report, the Inspecter General’s report that came 
out, was scathing in terms of the problems there.

And when Ken Salazar came in, he cleaned a lot of that up. But more needed 
to be done, and more needs to be done, which is part of the reason why he 
separated out the permitting function from the functions that involve 
enforcing the various safety regulations.

But I think on a whole bunch of fronts, you had a complacency when it came 
to what happens in the worst-case scenario.

I'll give you another example, because this is something that some of you 
have written about -- the question of how is it that oil companies kept on 
getting environmental waivers in getting their permits approved. Well, it 
turns out that the way the process works, first of all, there is a thorough 
environmental review as to whether a certain portion of the Gulf should be 
leased or not. That’s a thorough-going environmental evaluation. Then the 
overall lease is broken up into segments for individual leases, and again 
there’s an environmental review that’s done.

But when it comes to a specific company with its exploration plan in that 
one particular area -- they’re going to drill right here in this spot -- 
Congress mandated that only 30 days could be allocated before a yes or no 
answer was given. That was by law. So MMS’s hands were tied. And as a 
consequence, what became the habit, predating my Administration, was you 
just automatically gave the environmental waiver, because you couldn’t 
complete an environmental study in 30 days.

So what you’ve got is a whole bunch of aspects to how oversight was 
exercised in deepwater drilling that were very problematic. And that’s why 
it’s so important that this commission moves forward and examines, from 
soup to nuts, why did this happen; how should this proceed in a safe, 
effective manner; what’s required when it comes to worst-case scenarios to 
prevent something like this from happening.

I continue to believe that oil production is important, domestic oil 
production is important. But I also believe we can’t do this stuff if we 
don’t have confidence that we can prevent crises like this from happening 
again. And it’s going to take some time for the experts to make those 
determinations. And as I said, in the meantime, I think it’s appropriate 
that we keep in place the moratorium that I’ve already issued.

Chip Reid  .

  Q: Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Elizabeth Birnbaum
 resigned today. Did she 
resign? Was she fired? Was she forced out? And if so, why? And should other 
heads roll as we go on here?

Secondly, with regard to the Minerals Management Service, Secretary Salazar 
yesterday basically blamed the Bush Administration for the cozy 
relationship there, and you seemed to suggest that when you spoke in the 
Rose Garden a few weeks ago when you said, for too long, a decade or more 
-- most of those years, of course, the Bush Administration -- there’s been 
a cozy relationship between the oil companies and the federal agency that 
permits them to drill. But you knew as soon as you came in, and Secretary 
Salazar did, about this cozy relationship, but you continued to give 
permits -- some of them under questionable circumstances. Is it fair to 
blame the Bush Administration? Don't you deserve some of that?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, let me just make the point that I made earlier, which 
is Salazar came in and started cleaning house, but the culture had not 
fully changed in MMS. And absolutely I take responsibility for that. There 
wasn’t sufficient urgency in terms of the pace of how those changes needed 
to take place.

There’s no evidence that some of the corrupt practices that had taken place 
earlier took place under the current Administration’s watch. But a culture 
in which oil companies were able to get what they wanted without sufficient 
oversight and regulation -- that was a real problem. Some of it was 
constraints of the law, as I just mentioned, but we should have busted 
through those constraints.

Now, with respect to Ms. Birnbaum, I found out about her resignation today. 
Ken Salazar has been in testimony throughout the day, so I don’t know the 
circumstances in which this occurred. I can tell you what I’ve said to Ken 
Salazar, which is that we have to make sure, if we are going forward with 
domestic oil production, that the federal agency charged with overseeing 
its safety and security is operating at the highest level. And I want 
people in there who are operating at the highest level and aren’t making 
excuses when things break down, but are intent on fixing them. And I have 
confidence that Ken Salazar can do that.

FQ [Reid]: Is his job safe?

THE PRESIDENT: Yes.

Julianna [Goldman].

Q: Thank you, Mr. President. We’re learning today that the oil has been 
gushing as much as five times the initial estimates. What does that tell 
you and the American people about the extent to which BP can be trusted on 
any of the information that it’s providing, whether the events leading up 
to the spill, any of their information?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, BP’s interests are aligned with the public interest to 
the extent that they want to get this well capped. It’s bad for their 
business. It’s bad for their bottom line. They’re going to be paying a lot 
of damages, and we’ll be staying on them about that. So I think it’s fair 
to say that they want this thing capped as badly as anybody does and they 
want to minimize the damage as much as they can.

I think it is a legitimate concern to question whether BP’s interests in 
being fully forthcoming about the extent of the damage is aligned with the 
public interest. I mean, their interests may be to minimize the damage, and 
to the extent that they have better information than anybody else, to not 
be fully forthcoming. So my attitude is we have to verify whatever it is 
they say about the damage.

This is an area, by the way, where I do think our efforts fell short. And 
I’m not contradicting my prior point that people were working as hard as 
they could and doing the best that they could on this front. But I do 
believe that when the initial estimates came that there were -- it was 
5,000 barrels spilling into the ocean per day, that was based on satellite 
imagery and satellite data that would give a rough calculation. At that 
point, BP already had a camera down there, but wasn’t fully forthcoming in 
terms of what did those pictures look like. And when you set it up in 
time-lapse photography, experts could then make a more accurate 
determination. The Administration pushed them to release it, but they 
should have pushed them sooner. I mean, I think that it took too long for 
us to stand up our flow-tracking group that has now made these more 
accurate ranges of calculation.

Now, keep in mind that that didn’t change what our response was. As I said 
from the start, we understood that this could be really bad. We are hoping 
for the best, but preparing for the worst. And so there aren’t steps that 
would have taken in terms of trying to cap the well, or skimming the 
surface, or the in-situ burns, or preparing to make sure when this stuff 
hit shore that we could minimize the damage -- all those steps would have 
been the same even if we had information that this flow was coming out 
faster.

And eventually, we would have gotten better information because, by law, 
the federal government, if it’s going to be charging BP for the damage that 
it causes, is going to have to do the best possible assessment. But there 
was a lag of several weeks that I think shouldn’t have happened.

Helen Thomas  .

Q: Mr. President, when are you going to get out of Afghanistan? Why are we 
continuing to kill and die there? What is the real excuse? And don't give 
us this Bushism, “if we don't go there, they’ll all come here.”

THE PRESIDENT: Well, Helen, the reason we originally went to Afghanistan 
was because that was the base from which attacks were launched that killed 
3,000 people -- I’m going to get to your question, I promise. But I just 
want to remind people we went there because the Taliban was harboring al 
Qaeda, which had launched an attack that killed 3,000 Americans.

Al Qaeda escaped capture and they set up in the border regions between 
Pakistan and Afghanistan. Al Qaeda has affiliates that not only provide 
them safe harbor, but increasingly are willing to conduct their own 
terrorist operations initially in Afghanistan and in Pakistan, but 
increasingly directed against Western targets and targets of our allies as 
well.

So it is absolutely critical that we dismantle that network of extremists 
that are willing to attack us. And they are currently --

FQ [Thomas]: -- a threat to us?

THE PRESIDENT: They absolutely are a threat to us. They’re a significant 
threat to us. I wouldn’t be deploying young men and women into harm’s way 
if I didn’t think that they were an absolute threat to us.

Now, General McChrystal’s strategy, which I think is the right one, is that 
we are going to clear out Taliban strongholds; we are going to strengthen 
the capacity of the Afghan military; and we are going to get them stood up 
in a way that allows us then to start drawing down our troops but 
continuing to provide support for Afghan in its effort to create a stable 
government.

It is a difficult process. At the same time, we’ve also got to work with 
Pakistan so that they are more effective partners in dealing with the 
extremists that are within their borders. And it is a big, messy process. 
But we are making progress in part because the young men and women under 
General McChrystal’s supervision, as well as our coalition partners, are 
making enormous sacrifices; but also on the civilian side, we’re starting 
to make progress in terms of building capacity that will allow us then to 
draw down with an effective partner.

Jackie Calmes, New York Times.

  Q: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to follow up on something -- exchange 
you had with Chip. Leaving aside the existing permits for drilling in the 
Gulf, before -- weeks before BP, you had called for expanded drilling. Do 
you now regret that decision? And why did you do so knowing what you have 
described today about the sort of dysfunction in the MMS?

THE PRESIDENT: I continue to believe what I said at that time, which was 
that domestic oil production is an important part of our overall energy 
mix. It has to be part of an overall energy strategy. I also believe that 
it is insufficient to meet the needs of our future, which is why I’ve made 
huge investments in clean energy, why we continue to promote solar and wind 
and biodiesel and a whole range of other approaches, why we’re putting so 
much emphasis on energy efficiency.

But we’re not going to be able to transition to these clean energy 
strategies right away. I mean, we’re still years off and some technological 
breakthroughs away from being able to operate on purely a clean energy 
grid. During that time, we’re going to be using oil. And to the extent that 
we’re using oil, it makes sense for us to develop our oil and natural gas 
resources here in the United States and not simply rely on imports. That’s 
important for our economy; that’s important for economic growth.
 
So the overall framework, which is to say domestic oil production should be 
part of our overall energy mix, I think continues to be the right one. 
Where I was wrong was in my belief that the oil companies had their act 
together when it came to worst-case scenarios.

Now, that wasn’t based on just my blind acceptance of their statements. Oil 
drilling has been going on in the Gulf, including deepwater, for quite some 
time. And the record of accidents like this we hadn’t seen before. But it 
just takes one for us to have a wake-up call and recognize that claims that 
fail-safe procedures were in place, or that blowout preventers would 
function properly, or that valves would switch on and shut things off, that 
-- whether it’s because of human error, because of the technology was 
faulty, because when you’re operating at these depths you can’t anticipate 
exactly what happens -- those assumptions proved to be incorrect.

And so I’m absolutely convinced that we have to do a thorough-going scrub 
of that -- those safety procedures and those safety records. And we have to 
have confidence that even if it’s just a one-in-a-million shot, that we’ve 
got enough technology know-how that we can shut something like this down 
not in a month, not in six weeks, but in two or three or four days. And I 
don’t have that confidence right now.

FQ [Calmes]: If I could follow up --

THE PRESIDENT: Sure.

FQ [Calmes] Do you -- are you sorry now? Do you regret that your team had 
not done the reforms at the Minerals Management Service that you’ve 
subsequently called for? And I’m also curious as to how it is that you 
didn’t know about Ms. Birnbaum’s resignation/firing before --

THE PRESIDENT: Well, you’re assuming it was a firing. If it was a 
resignation, then she would have submitted a letter to Mr. Salazar this 
morning, at a time when I had a whole bunch of other stuff going on.

FQ [Calmes]: So you rule out that she was fired?

THE PRESIDENT: Come on, Jackie, I don’t know. I’m telling you the -- I 
found out about it this morning, so I don’t yet know the circumstances, and 
Ken Salazar has been in testimony on the Hill.

With respect to your first question, at MMS, Ken Salazar was in the process 
of making these reforms. But the point that I’m making is, is that 
obviously they weren’t happening fast enough. If they had been happening 
fast enough, this might have been caught. Now, it’s possible that it might 
now have been caught. I mean, we could have gone through a whole new 
process for environmental review; you could have had a bunch of technical 
folks take a look at BP’s plans, and they might have said, this is -- meets 
industry standards, we haven’t had an accident like this in 15 years and we 
should go ahead.

That’s what this commission has to discover, is -- was this a systemic 
breakdown? Is this something that could happen once in a million times? Is 
it something that could happen once in a thousand times, or once every 
5,000 times? What exactly are the risks involved?

Now, let me make one broader point, though, about energy. The fact that oil 
companies now have to go a mile underwater and then drill another three 
miles below that in order to hit oil tells us something about the direction 
of the oil industry. Extraction is more expensive and it is going to be 
inherently more risky.

And so that’s part of the reason you never heard me say, “Drill, baby, 
drill” -- because we can’t drill our way out of the problem. It may be part 
of the mix as a bridge to a transition to new technologies and new energy 
sources, but we should be pretty modest in understanding that the easily 
accessible oil has already been sucked up out of the ground.

And as we are moving forward, the technology gets more complicated, the oil 
sources are more remote, and that means that there’s probably going to end 
up being more risk. And we as a society are going to have to make some very 
serious determinations in terms of what risks are we willing to accept. And 
that’s part of what the commission I think is going to have to look at.

I will tell you, though, that understanding we need to grow -- we’re going 
to be consuming oil for our industries and for how people live in this 
country, we’re going to have to start moving on this transition. And that’s 
why when I went to the Republican Caucus just this week, I said to them, 
let’s work together. You’ve got Lieberman and Kerry, who previously were 
working with Lindsey Graham -- even though Lindsey is not on the bill right 
now -- coming up with a framework that has the potential to get bipartisan 
support, and says, yes, we’re going to still need oil production, but you 
know what, we can see what’s out there on the horizon, and it’s a problem 
if we don't start changing how we operate.

Macarena Vidal. Not here? Oh, there you are.

Q: Mr. President, you announced -- or the White House announced two days 
ago that you were going to send 1,200 people to -- 1,200 members of the 
National Guard to the border. I want to -- if you could precise what their 
target is going to be, what you’re planning to achieve with that -- if you 
could clarify a bit more the mission that they're going to have.

And also on Arizona, after you have criticized so much the immigration law 
that has been approved there, would you support the boycott that some 
organizations are calling towards that state?

THE PRESIDENT: I’ve indicated that I don't approve of the Arizona law. I 
think it’s the wrong approach. I understand the frustrations of the people 
of Arizona and a lot of folks along the border that that border has not 
been entirely secured in a way that is both true to our traditions as a 
nation of law and as a nation of immigrants.

I’m President of the United States; I don't endorse boycotts or not endorse 
boycotts. That's something that the private citizens can make a decision 
about. What my Administration is doing is examining very closely this 
Arizona law and its implications for the civil rights and civil liberties 
for the people in Arizona, as well as the concern that you start getting a 
patchwork of 50 different immigration laws around the country in an area 
that is inherently the job of the federal government.

Now, for the federal government to do its job, everybody has got to step 
up. And so I’ve tried to be as clear as I could this week, and I will 
repeat it to everybody who’s here: We have to have a comprehensive approach 
to immigration reform. The time to get moving on this is now. And I am 
prepared to work with both parties and members of Congress to get a bill 
that does a good job securing our borders; holds employers accountable; 
makes sure that those who have come here illegally have to pay a fine, pay 
back taxes, learn English, and get right by the law.

We had the opportunity to do that. We’ve done -- we’ve gotten a vote of a 
super majority in the Senate just four years ago. There’s no reason why we 
shouldn’t be able to recreate that bipartisan spirit to get this problem 
solved.

Now, with respect to the National Guardsmen and women, I have authorized up 
to 1,200 National Guardspersons in a plan that was actually shaped last 
year. So this is not simply in response to the Arizona law. And what we 
find is, is that National Guardspersons can help on intelligence; dealing 
with both drug and human trafficking along the borders; they can relieve 
border guards so that the border guards then can be in charge of law 
enforcement in those areas. So there are a lot of functions that they can 
carry out that helps leverage and increase the resources available in this 
area.

By the way, we didn’t just send National Guard. We’ve also got a package of 
$500 million in additional resources, because, for example, if we are doing 
a better job dealing with trafficking along the border, we’ve also got to 
make sure that we’ve got prosecutors down there who can prosecute those 
cases.

But the key point I want to emphasize to you is that I don’t see these 
issues in isolation. We’re not going to solve the problem just solely as a 
consequence of sending National Guard troops down there. We’re going to 
solve this problem because we have created an orderly, fair, humane 
immigration framework in which people are able to immigrate to this country 
in a legal fashion; employers are held accountable for hiring legally 
present workers.

And I think we can craft that system if everybody is willing to step up. 
And I told the Republican Caucus when I met with them this week, I don’t 
even need you to meet me halfway; meet me a quarter of the way. I’ll bring 
the majority of Democrats to a smart, sensible, comprehensive immigration 
reform bill. But I’m going to have to have some help, given the rules of 
the Senate, where a simple majority is not enough.

Last question, Major [Garrett]  
.

Q: Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon.

THE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon.

Q: Two issues. Some in your government have said the federal government’s 
boot is on the neck of BP. Are you comfortable with that imagery, sir? Is 
your boot on the neck of BP? And can you understand, sir, why some in the 
Gulf who feel besieged by this oil spill consider that a meaningless, 
possibly ludicrous, metaphor?

Secondarily, can you tell the American public, sir, what your White House 
did or did not offer Congressman Sestak to not enter the Democratic 
senatorial primary? And how will you meet your levels of expressed 
transparency and ethics to convey that answer to satisfy what appear to be 
bipartisan calls for greater disclosure about that matter? Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT: There will be an official response shortly on the Sestak 
issue, which I hope will answer your questions.

FQ [Garrett]: From you, sir?

THE PRESIDENT: You will get it from my Administration. And it will be 
coming out -- when I say “shortly,” I mean shortly. I don’t mean weeks or 
months. With respect to the first --

FQ [Garrett]: Can you assure the public it was ethical and legal, sir?

THE PRESIDENT: I can assure the public that nothing improper took place. 
But, as I said, there will be a response shortly on that issue.

With respect to the metaphor that was used, I think Ken Salazar would 
probably be the first one to admit that he has been frustrated, angry, and 
occasionally emotional about this issue, like a lot of people have. I mean, 
there are a lot of folks out there who see what’s happening and are angry 
at BP, are frustrated that it hasn’t stopped. And so I’ll let Ken answer 
for himself. I would say that we don’t need to use language like that; what 
we need is actions that make sure that BP is being held accountable. And 
that’s what I intend to do, and I think that’s what Ken Salazar intends to 
do.

But, look, we’ve gone through a difficult year and a half. This is just one 
more bit of difficulty. And this is going to be hard not just right now, 
it’s going to be hard for months to come. The Gulf --

FQ [Garrett]: This --

THE PRESIDENT: This spill. The Gulf is going to be affected in a bad way. 
And so my job right now is just to make sure that everybody in the Gulf 
understands this is what I wake up to in the morning and this is what I go 
to bed at night thinking about.

FQ [Garrett]: The spill?

THE PRESIDENT: The spill. And it’s not just me, by the way. When I woke 
this morning and I’m shaving and Malia knocks on my bathroom door and she 
peeks in her head and she says, “Did you plug the hole yet, Daddy?” Because 
I think everybody understands that when we are fouling the Earth like this, 
it has concrete implications not just for this generation, but for future 
generations.

I grew up in Hawaii where the ocean is sacred. And when you see birds 
flying around with oil all over their feathers and turtles dying, that 
doesn’t just speak to the immediate economic consequences of this; this 
speaks to how are we caring for this incredible bounty that we have.

And so sometimes when I hear folks down in Louisiana expressing 
frustrations, I may not always think that they're comments are fair; on the 
other hand, I probably think to myself, these are folks who grew up fishing 
in these wetlands and seeing this as an integral part of who they are -- 
and to see that messed up in this fashion would be infuriating.

So the thing that the American people need to understand is that not a day 
goes by where the federal government is not constantly thinking about how 
do we make sure that we minimize the damage on this, we close this thing 
down, we review what happened to make sure that it does not happen again. 
And in that sense, there are analogies to what’s been happening in terms of 
in the financial markets and some of these other areas where big crises 
happen -- it forces us to do some soul searching. And I think that’s 
important for all of us to do.

In the meantime, my job is to get this fixed. And in case anybody wonders 
-- in any of your reporting, in case you were wondering who’s responsible, 
I take responsibility. It is my job to make sure that everything is done to 
shut this down. That doesn’t mean it’s going to be easy. It doesn’t mean 
it’s going to happen right away or the way I’d like it to happen. It 
doesn’t mean that we’re not going to make mistakes. But there shouldn’t be 
any confusion here: The federal government is fully engaged, and I’m fully 
engaged.

All right. Thank you very much, everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image #1 (Souza), Images #2-11 (Screenshots) Source: 
WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Images = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.