 

 

Barack Obama

Address on UN Security Council Sanctions Against Iran

delivered 9 June 2010

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Alright. Good afternoon, everybody.  Today, the United Nations Security 
Council voted overwhelmingly to sanction Iran for its continued failure to 
live up to its obligations.  This resolution will put in place the toughest 
sanctions ever faced by the Iranian government, and it sends an 
unmistakable message about the international community’s commitment to 
stopping the spread of nuclear weapons.

For years, the Iranian government has failed to live up to its obligations 
under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  It has violated its 
commitments to the International Atomic Energy Agency.  It has ignored U.N. 
Security Council resolutions.  And while Iran’s leaders hide behind 
outlandish rhetoric, their actions have been deeply troubling.  Indeed, 
when I took office just over 16 months ago, Iranian intransigence was 
well-established.  Iran had gone from zero centrifuges spinning to several 
thousand, and the international community was divided about how to move 
forward.

Yet this day was not inevitable.  We made clear from the beginning of my 
administration that the United States was prepared to pursue diplomatic 
solutions to address the concerns over Iranian nuclear programs.  I 
extended the offer of engagement on the basis of mutual interest and mutual 
respect.  And together with the United Kingdom, with Russia, China, and 
Germany, we sat down with our Iranian counterparts.  We offered the 
opportunity of a better relationship between Iran and the international 
community -- one that reduced Iran’s political isolation, and increased its 
economic integration with the rest of the world.  In short, we offered the 
Iranian government the prospect of a better future for its people, if -- 
and only if -- it lives up to its international obligations.

So there is no double standard at play here.  We’ve made it clear, time and 
again, that we respect Iran’s right, like all countries, to access peaceful 
nuclear energy.  That is a right embedded in the NPT -- a treaty that has 
to serve as the safeguard against a world in which more nations acquire the 
world’s most deadly weapons, and international law is treated as an empty 
promise.  That NPT treaty was signed by all the parties involved, and it is 
a treaty that the United States has sought to strengthen from the day I 
took office, including through our own commitments to reduce America’s 
nuclear arsenal.

So let me repeat:  We recognize Iran’s rights.  But with those rights come 
responsibilities.  And time and again, the Iranian government has failed to 
meet those responsibilities.  Iran concealed a nuclear enrichment facility 
in Qom that raised serious questions about the nature of its program.  Iran 
further violated its own obligations under U.N. Security Council 
resolutions to suspend uranium enrichment.  Instead, they’re enriching up 
to 20 percent.  It has failed to comply fully with IAEA’s requirements.  
Indeed, Iran is the only NPT signatory in the world -- the only one -- that 
cannot convince the IAEA that its nuclear program is intended for peaceful 
purposes.

That’s why the international community was compelled to impose these 
serious consequences.  These are the most comprehensive sanctions that the 
Iranian government has faced.  They will impose restrictions on Iran’s 
nuclear activities, its ballistic missile program, and, for the first time, 
its conventional military.  They will put a new framework in place to stop 
Iranian smuggling, and crack down on Iranian banks and financial 
transactions.  They target individuals, entities, and institutions -- 
including those associated with the Revolutionary Guard -- that have 
supported Iran’s nuclear program and prospered from illicit activities at 
the expense of the Iranian people.  And we will ensure that these sanctions 
are vigorously enforced, just as we continue to refine and enforce our own 
sanctions on Iran alongside our friends and our allies.

The strong resolution that was passed today benefited from strong 
international support.  In voting for it, we were joined by nations from 
Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America -- including Russia and China.  And 
these sanctions show the united view of the international community that a 
nuclear arms race in the Middle East is in nobody’s interest, and that 
nations must be held accountable for challenging the global 
non-proliferation regime.  The Iranian government must understand that true 
security will not come through the pursuit of nuclear weapons.  True 
security will come through adherence to international law and the 
demonstration of its peaceful intent.

We know that the Iranian government will not change its behavior overnight, 
but today’s vote demonstrates the growing costs that will come with Iranian 
intransigence.  And I want to be clear:  These sanctions do not close the 
door on diplomacy.  Iran continues to have the opportunity to take a 
different and better path.  I would like nothing more than to reach the day 
when the Iranian government fulfills its international obligations -- a day 
when these sanctions are lifted, previous sanctions are lifted, and the 
Iranian people can finally fulfill the greatness of the Iranian nation.

Indeed, these sanctions are not directed at the Iranian people.  As I said 
in Cairo, for decades the Iranian government has defined itself in 
opposition to my country.  But faced with the opportunity to find a new way 
forward -- one that would benefit its own people -- the Iranian government 
has chosen instead to remain a prisoner of the past.

Saturday will mark one year from the day that an election captivated the 
attention of the world -- an event that should have been remembered for how 
the Iranian people participated with remarkable enthusiasm, but will 
instead be remembered for how the Iranian government brutally suppressed 
dissent and murdered the innocent, including a young woman left to die in 
the street.

Actions do have consequences, and today the Iranian government will face 
some of those consequences.  Because whether it is threatening the nuclear 
non-proliferation regime, or the human rights of its own citizens, or the 
stability of its own neighbors by supporting terrorism, the Iranian 
government continues to demonstrate that its own unjust actions are a 
threat to justice everywhere.

I want and hope for the people of Iran that the government of Iran will 
make a different choice.  It can make a different choice and pursue a 
course that will reaffirm the NPT as the basis of global non-proliferation 
and disarmament -- a course that will advance Iran’s own security and 
prosperity, and the peace of the wider world.  Today’s sanctions are yet 
another signal that if the Iranian government continues to undermine the 
NPT and the peace that it protects, then Iran will find itself more 
isolated, less prosperous and less secure.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.