 

 

Barack Obama

Address at Carnegie Mellon University on the Economy

delivered 2 June 2010, Pittsburgh, PA

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you very much.

Let me begin by thanking Dr. Jared Cohon, and the entire Carnegie Mellon 
community, for welcoming me once again, and for the terrific work that he 
and the administration, faculty and staff do here each and every day.

I also want to acknowledge your outstanding mayor -- who doesn’t look any 
older than the last time I saw him -- Mayor Luke Ravenstahl.  There he is, 
right there.

It is great to be back at Carnegie Mellon, and in the beautiful city of 
Pittsburgh.  I love visiting a good sports town.  Last year, I stole Dan 
Rooney to serve as my ambassador to Ireland.  To make it up, I invited both 
the Steelers and the Penguins to the White House to celebrate their 
championships.  Seeing how the Blackhawks are headed to Philly tonight with 
a 2-0 lead in the Stanley Cup Finals, I'm just glad that we're on this side 
of the state.

I noticed a couple of people said they were rooting for the Blackhawks, 
which tells me something about the rivalry between Pittsburgh and Philly.

Of course, we meet here at an incredibly difficult time for America.  Among 
other things, it’s a time when the worst environmental disaster of its kind 
in our nation’s history is threatening the Gulf Coast and the people who 
live there.  Right now, stopping this oil spill and containing its damage 
is necessarily the top priority not just of my Administration but I think 
of the entire country.  And we’re waging this battle every minute of every 
day.

But at the same time, we’re continuing our efforts to recover and rebuild 
from an economic disaster that has touched the lives of nearly every 
American.  That’s what I want to talk about today -- the state of our 
economy, the future we must seize, and the path we chose to get there.

It has now been a little over 16 months since I took office amid one of the 
worst economic storms in our history.  And to navigate that storm, my 
Administration was forced to take some dramatic and unpopular steps.  These 
steps have succeeded in breaking the freefall.  We’re again moving in the 
right direction.

An economy that was shrinking at an alarming rate when I became President 
has now been growing for three consecutive quarters.  After losing an 
average of 750,000 jobs a month during the winter of last year, we’ve now 
added jobs for five of the last six months, and we expect to see strong job 
growth in Friday’s report.  The taxpayer money it cost to shore up the 
financial sector and the auto industry, that's being repaid.  And both GM 
and Chrysler are adding shifts and operating at a profit. So, despite 
temporary setbacks, uncertain world events, and the resulting ups and downs 
of the market, this economy is getting stronger by the day.

Now, that doesn’t mean this recession is by any means over for the millions 
of Americans who are still looking for a job or a way to pay the bills.  
Not by a long shot.  The devastation created by the deepest downturn since 
the Great Depression has hit people and communities across our country very 
hard.  And it’s not going to be a real recovery until people can feel it in 
their own lives.

In the immediate future, this means doing whatever is necessary to keep the 
recovery going and to spur job growth.  But in the long term, it means 
recognizing that for a lot of middle-class families -- for entire 
communities, in some case -- a sense of economic security has been missing 
since long before the recession began.

Over the last decade, these families saw their income decline.  They saw 
the cost of things like health care and college tuition reach record highs. 
 They lived through a so-called economic “expansion” that generated slower 
job growth than at any prior expansion since World War II.  Some people 
have called the last 10 years “the lost decade.”

So the anxiety that’s out there today isn’t new.  The recession has 
certainly made it worse, but that feeling of not being in control of your 
own economic future -- that sense that the American Dream might slowly be 
slipping away -- that’s been around for some time now.  And for better or 
for worse, our generation of Americans has been buffeted by tremendous 
forces of economic change.  Long gone are the days when a high school 
diploma could guarantee a job at a local factory -- not when so many of 
those factories had moved overseas.  Pittsburgh, a city that once was 
defined by the steel industry, knows this better than just about anybody.  
And today, the ability of jobs and entire industries to relocate where 
there’s skilled workers and an Internet connection has forced America to 
compete like never before.

From China to India to Europe, other nations have already realized this.  
They’re putting a greater emphasis on math and science, and demanding more 
from their students.  Some countries are building high-speed railroads and 
expanding broadband access. They’re making serious investments in 
technology and clean energy because they want to win the competition for 
those jobs.

So we can’t afford to stand pat while the world races by.  The United 
States of America did not become the most prosperous nation on Earth by 
sheer luck or happenstance.  We got here because each time a generation of 
Americans has faced a changing world, we have changed with it.  We have not 
feared our future; we have shaped it.  America does not stand still; we 
move forward.

And that's why I’ve said that as we emerge from this recession, we can’t 
afford to return to the pre-crisis status quo.  We can’t go back to an 
economy that was too dependent on bubbles and debt and financial 
speculation.  We can’t accept economic growth that leaves the middle class 
owing more and making less.  We have to build a new and stronger foundation 
for growth and prosperity -- and that’s exactly what we’ve been doing for 
the last 16 months.

It’s a foundation based on investments in our people and their future; 
investments in the skills and education we need to compete; investments in 
a 21st century infrastructure for America, from high-speed railroads to 
high-speed Internet; investments in research and technology, like clean 
energy, that can lead to new jobs and new exports and new industries.

This new foundation is also based on reforms that will make our economy 
stronger and our businesses more competitive -- reforms that will make 
health care cheaper, our financial system more secure, and our government 
less burdened with debt.

In a global economy, we can’t pursue this agenda in a vacuum.  At the 
height of the financial crisis, the coordinated action we took with the 
nations of the G20 prevented a global depression and helped restore 
worldwide growth.  And as we’ve recently witnessed in Europe, economic 
difficulties in one part of the world can affect everybody else.  And 
that’s why we have to keep on working with the nations of the G20 to pursue 
more balanced growth.  That’s why we need to coordinate financial reform 
with other nations so that we avoid a global race to the bottom.  It’s why 
we need to open new markets and meet the goal of my National Export 
Initiative:  to double our exports over the next five years.  And it’s why 
we need to ensure that our competitors play fair and our agreements are 
enforced.  This, too, is part of building a new foundation.

Now, some of you may have noticed that we have been building this 
foundation without much help from our friends in the other party.  From our 
efforts to rescue the economy, to health insurance reform, to financial 
reform, most have sat on the sidelines and shouted from the bleachers.  
They said no to tax cuts for small businesses; no to tax credits for 
college tuition; no to investments in clean energy.  They said no to 
protecting patients from insurance companies and consumers from big banks.

And some of this, of course, is just politics.  Before I was even 
inaugurated, the congressional leaders of the other party got together and 
made a calculation that if I failed, they’d win. So when I went to meet 
with them about the need for a Recovery Act, in the midst of crisis, they 
announced they were against it before I even arrived at the meeting.  
Before we even had a health care bill, a Republican senator actually said, 
“If we’re able to stop Obama on this, it will be his Waterloo.  It will 
break him.”  So those weren’t very hopeful signs.

But to be fair, a good deal of the other party’s opposition to our agenda 
has also been rooted in their sincere and fundamental belief about the role 
of government.  It’s a belief that government has little or no role to play 
in helping this nation meet our collective challenges.  It’s an agenda that 
basically offers two answers to every problem we face: more tax breaks for 
the wealthy and fewer rules for corporations.

The last Administration called this recycled idea “the Ownership Society
 
.”  But what it essentially means is that everyone is on their own.  No 
matter how hard you work, if your paycheck isn’t enough to pay for college 
or health care or childcare, well, you’re on your own.  If misfortune 
causes you to lose your job or your home, you’re on your own.  And if 
you’re a Wall Street bank or an insurance company or an oil company, you 
pretty much get to play by your own rules, regardless of the consequences 
for everybody else.

Now, I’ve never believed that government has all the answers.  Government 
cannot and should not replace businesses as the true engine of growth and 
job creation.  Government can’t instill good values and a sense of 
responsibility in our children.  That's a parent’s job.  Too much 
government can deprive us of choice and burden us with debt.  Poorly 
designed regulations can choke off competition and the capital that 
businesses need to thrive.

I understand these arguments.  And it’s reflected in my policies.  After 
all, one-third of the Recovery Act we designed was made up of tax cuts for 
families and small businesses.  And when you think back to the health care 
debate, despite calls for a single-payer, government-run health care plan, 
we passed reform that maintains our system of private health insurance.

But I also understand that throughout our nation’s history, we have 
balanced the threat of overreaching government against the dangers of an 
unfettered market.  We've provided a basic safety net, because any one of 
us might experience hardship at some time in our lives and may need some 
help getting back on our feet.  And we've recognized that there have been 
times when only government has been able to do what individuals couldn't do 
and corporations wouldn't do.

That's how we have railroads and highways, public schools and police 
forces.  That's how we've made possible scientific research that has led to 
medical breakthroughs like the vaccine for Hepatitis B, and technological 
wonders like GPS.  That's how we have Social Security and a minimum wage, 
and laws to protect the food we eat and the water we drink and the air that 
we breathe.  That’s how we have rules to ensure that mines are safe and, 
yes, that oil companies pay for the spills that they cause.

Now, there have always been those who’ve said no to such protections; no to 
such investments.  There were accusations that Social Security would lead 
to socialism, and that Medicare was a government takeover.  There were 
bankers who claimed the creation of federal deposit insurance would destroy 
the industry.  And there were automakers who argued that installing 
seatbelts was unnecessary and unaffordable.  There were skeptics who 
thought that cleaning our water and our air would bankrupt our entire 
economy.  And all of these claims proved false.  All of these reforms led 
to greater security and greater prosperity for our people and our economy.

So what was true then is true today.  As November approaches, leaders in 
the other party will campaign furiously on the same economic arguments 
they’ve been making for decades.  Fortunately, we don't have to look back 
too many years to see how their agenda turns out.  For much of the last 10 
years we've tried it their way.  They gave us tax cuts that weren’t paid 
for to millionaires who didn’t need them.  They gutted regulations and put 
industry insiders in charge of industry oversight.  They shortchanged 
investments in clean energy and education, in research and technology.  And 
despite all their current moralizing about the need to curb spending, this 
is the same crowd who took the record $237 billion surplus that President 
Clinton left them and turned it into a record $1.3 trillion deficit.

So we know where those ideas lead us.  And now we have a choice as a 
nation.  We can return to the failed economic policies of the past, or we 
can keep building a stronger future. We can go backward, or we can keep 
moving forward.  And I don't know about you, but I want to move forward.  I 
think America wants to move forward.

Now, the first step in building a new foundation that allows us to move 
forward has been to address the costs and risks that have made our economy 
less competitive -- outdated regulations, crushing health care costs, and a 
growing debt.

To start with, we can't compete as a nation if the irresponsibility of a 
few folks on Wall Street can bring our entire economy to its knees.  That's 
why we're on the verge of passing the most sweeping financial reform since 
the Great Depression.  It’s a reform that will help prevent another AIG.  
It will end taxpayer-funded bank bailouts.  It contains the strongest 
consumer protections in history -- protections that will empower Americans 
with the clear and concise information they need before signing up for a 
credit card or taking out a mortgage.

Financial reform will not guard against every instance of greed and 
irresponsibility on Wall Street.  But it will enshrine a new principle in 
our financial system:  From now on, instead of competing to see who can 
come up with the cleverest scheme to make the quickest buck, financial 
institutions will compete to see who can make the better product and the 
better service.  And that's a competition that benefits Wall Street and 
Main Street.  That’s why we need to get this legislation done.  It’s why we 
can’t afford to go back; we have to move forward.

We also know we can’t compete in a global economy if our citizens are 
forced to spend more and more of their income on medical bills; if our 
businesses are forced to choose between health care and hiring; if state 
and federal budgets are weighed down with skyrocketing health care costs.  
That’s why we finally passed health insurance reform.

Now, let’s be clear.  The costs of health care are not going to come down 
overnight just because legislation passed, and in an ever-changing industry 
like health care, we’re going to continuously need to apply more 
cost-cutting measures as the years go by.  But once this reform is in full 
effect, middle-class families will pay less for their health care, and the 
worst practices of the insurance industry will end.  People with 
preexisting medical conditions will no longer be excluded from coverage.  
People who become seriously ill will no longer be thrown off their coverage 
for reasons contrived by the insurance company.  Taxpayers will no longer 
have to pay -- in the form of higher premiums -- for trips to the ER by 
uninsured Americans.  Businesses will get help with their health care 
costs.  In fact, small businesses are already learning they’re eligible for 
tax credits to cover their workers this year.  And with less waste and 
greater efficiency in the system, this reform will do more to bring down 
the deficit than any step we have taken in more than a decade.

The other party has staked their claim this November on repealing these 
health insurance reforms instead of making them work.  They want to go 
back.  We need to move forward.

Making health care more cost-efficient is critical, because it’s also true 
that we cannot be competitive as a nation if we remain dragged down by our 
growing debt.  So let me talk about debt just for a second.

By the time I took office, we had a one-year deficit of over $1 trillion 
and projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next decade.  Most of this 
was the result of not paying for two major tax cuts skewed to the wealthy, 
and a worthy but expensive prescription drug program that wasn’t paid for.  
I always find it interesting that the same people who participated in these 
decisions are the ones who now charge our Administration with fiscal 
irresponsibility.

And the truth is if I had taken office in ordinary times, I would have 
liked nothing more than to start bringing down the deficits that they 
created.  But we took office amid a crisis, and the effects of the 
recession put a $3 trillion hole in our budget before I even walked through 
the door.  Additionally, the steps that we had to take to save the economy 
from depression temporarily added more to the deficit -- by about $1 
trillion.  Of course, if we had spiraled into a depression, our deficits 
and debt levels would be much worse.

Now, the economy is still fragile, so we can’t put on the brakes too 
quickly.  We have to do what it takes to ensure a strong recovery.  A 
growing economy will unquestionably improve our fiscal health, as will the 
steps we take in the short-term to put Americans back to work.

And that’s why I signed a bill that will provide tax cuts for small 
businesses that hire unemployed workers.  That's why I’ve urged Congress to 
pass a small business lending fund so that small businesses can get the 
credit they need to create jobs and grow.  That's why I believe it’s 
critical we extend unemployment insurance for several more months, so that 
Americans who’ve been laid off through no fault of their own get the 
support they need to provide for their families and can maintain their 
health insurance until they’re rehired.  And we have to work with state and 
local governments to make sure they have the resources to prevent the 
likely layoffs of hundreds of thousands of public school teachers across 
the country over the next few months.

But as we look ahead, we can’t lose sight of the urgent need to get our 
fiscal house in order.  There are four key components to putting our budget 
on a sustainable path.  Maintaining economic growth is number one.  Health 
care reform is number two. The third component is the belt-tightening steps 
I’ve already outlined to reduce our deficit by $1 trillion.

Starting in 2011, we will enact a three-year freeze on all discretionary 
spending outside of national security -- something that was never enacted 
in the last Administration.  We will allow the tax cuts for the wealthiest 
Americans to expire.  We’ve gone through the budget, line by line, and 
identified more than 120 programs for elimination.  We’ve restored a simple 
budgeting rule that every family and business understands called 
pay-as-you-go. And we will charge the largest Wall Street firms a fee to 
repay the American people for rescuing them during the financial crisis -- 
a fee that will bring down the deficit by $90 billion -- a fee that will 
bring down the deficit by $90 billion over the next decade.  By the way, 
that $90 billion represents about one-eighth of the amount these banks will 
pay out in bonuses over the same time period in time.

Now, finally, the fourth component in improving our fiscal health is the 
bipartisan Fiscal Commission that I’ve established that will provide a 
specific set of solutions by the fall to deal with our medium- and 
long-term deficit.  And I have to warn you this will not be easy.  I know 
that some like to make the argument that if we would just eliminate pork 
barrel projects and foreign aid, we could eliminate our deficit.  Turns out 
such spending makes up just 3 percent of our deficit.  You combine all 
foreign aid and all earmarks -- that’s 3 percent of our budget.  So meeting 
the deficit challenge will require some very difficult decisions about the 
largely popular programs that make up the other 97 percent.  It means we’ll 
have to sort through our priorities and figure out what programs that we 
can do without.

On this point, I strongly agree with my friends in the other party.  What I 
don’t agree with is the notion that we should also sacrifice critical 
investments in our people and our future.  You know, if you’re a family 
who’s tightening your belt, you will definitely sacrifice going out to 
dinner, but you’re not going to sacrifice saving for your child’s college 
education.  It’s precisely our investments in education and innovation that 
will make America more competitive in the 21st century.  And we can’t go 
back; we’ve got to move forward.

That’s why I’ve made education reform a top priority -- because countries 
that out-educate us today will out-compete us tomorrow.  And so we want 
every citizen to have the skills and training they need in a global economy 
-- from the day that you’re born through whatever career you may choose.

Last year, we launched a national competition to improve our schools based 
on a simple idea:  Instead of funding the status quo, we will only invest 
in reform -- reform that raises student achievement, that inspires students 
to excel in math and science, and turns around failing schools that steal 
the future of too many young Americans.

And to achieve my goal of ensuring America once more has the highest 
proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020, we passed a law that 
will make college more affordable by ending the unnecessary taxpayer 
subsidies that go to financial institutions for student loans.  That means 
we’re saving billions of dollars that will go directly to students, 
including students right here at Carnegie Mellon.

It’s a bill that will also revitalize our community colleges, which are a 
career pathway to the children of so many working families.

In addition to training our workers for the jobs of the future, we’re also 
investing in the innovation that will create those jobs here in America -- 
the research, the technology, the infrastructure that will secure our 
economic future.

Right now, as we speak, the Recovery Act is putting Americans to work 
building a 21st century America.  There’s no reason China should have the 
fastest trains or that rural Pennsylvania should be without high-speed 
Internet access.  We’ve got to make those investments.  From the first 
railroads to the Interstate Highway System, this nation has always been 
built to compete.  So we’re going to invest, and are investing right now, 
in new infrastructure -- expanding broadband, health information 
technology, advanced manufacturing facilities, America’s first high-speed 
rail network.  We’re also investing in the ideas and technologies that will 
lead to new jobs and entire new industries.

Consider what we’ve done with clean energy.  The tax credits and loan 
guarantees in the Recovery Act alone will lead to 720,000 clean energy jobs 
in America by 2012 -- 720,000.  I’ll give you one example.  The United 
States used to make less than 2 percent of the world’s advanced batteries 
for hybrid cars.  By 2015, because of the investments that we made, we’ll 
have enough capacity to make up to 40 percent of these batteries.

Now, this brings me to an issue that’s on everybody’s minds right now -- 
namely, what kind of energy future can ensure our long-term prosperity.  
The catastrophe unfolding in the Gulf right now may prove to be a result of 
human error, or of corporations taking dangerous shortcuts to compromise 
safety, or a combination of both.  And I’ve launched a National Commission 
so that the American people will have answers on exactly what happened.  
But we have to acknowledge that there are inherent risks to drilling four 
miles beneath the surface of the Earth, and these are risks -- these are 
risks that are bound to increase the harder oil extraction becomes.  We 
also have to acknowledge that an America run solely on fossil fuels should 
not be the vision we have for our children and our grandchildren.

We consume more than 20 percent of the world’s oil, but have less than 2 
percent of the world’s oil reserves.  So without a major change in our 
energy policy, our dependence on oil means that we will continue to send 
billions of dollars of our hard-earned wealth to other countries every 
month -- including countries in dangerous and unstable regions.  In other 
words, our continued dependence on fossil fuels will jeopardize our 
national security.  It will smother our planet.  And it will continue to 
put our economy and our environment at risk.

Now, I understand that we can’t end our dependence on fossil fuels 
overnight.  That’s why I supported a careful plan of offshore oil 
production as one part of our overall energy strategy.  But we can pursue 
such production only if it’s safe, and only if it’s used as a short-term 
solution while we transition to a clean energy economy.

And the time has come to aggressively accelerate that transition.  The time 
has come, once and for all, for this nation to fully embrace a clean energy 
future.  Now, that means continuing our unprecedented effort to make 
everything from our homes and businesses to our cars and trucks more 
energy-efficient.  It means tapping into our natural gas reserves, and 
moving ahead with our plan to expand our nation’s fleet of nuclear power 
plants.  It means rolling back billions of dollars of tax breaks to oil 
companies so we can prioritize investments in clean energy research and 
development.

But the only way the transition to clean energy will ultimately succeed is 
if the private sector is fully invested in this future -- if capital comes 
off the sidelines and the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs is unleashed.  And 
the only way to do that is by finally putting a price on carbon pollution.

No, many businesses have already embraced this idea because it provides a 
level of certainty about the future.  And for those that face transition 
costs, we can help them adjust.  But if we refuse to take into account the 
full costs of our fossil fuel addiction -- if we don’t factor in the 
environmental costs and the national security costs and the true economic 
costs -- we will have missed our best chance to seize a clean energy 
future.

The House of Representatives has already passed a comprehensive energy and 
climate bill, and there is currently a plan in the Senate -- a plan that 
was developed with ideas from Democrats and Republicans -- that would 
achieve the same goal.  And, Pittsburgh, I want you to know, the votes may 
not be there right now, but I intend to find them in the coming months. I 
will continue to make the case for a clean energy future wherever and 
whenever I can.  I will work with anyone to get this done -- and we will 
get it done.

The next generation will not be held hostage to energy sources from the 
last century.  We are not going to move backwards.  We are going to move 
forward.

This overarching principle -- that we must invest in and embrace the 
innovation and technology of the future and not the past -- that applies 
beyond our energy policy.  That’s why we’ve decided to devote more than 3 
percent of our GDP to research and development -- to spur the discovery of 
services and products and businesses that we have yet to imagine.

We’ve proposed making the research and experimentation tax credit permanent 
-- a tax credit that helps businesses afford the high costs of developing 
new technologies and new products.  Last year, we made the largest 
investment in basic research funding in history.

The possibilities of where this research might lead are endless.  Imagine a 
new treatment that kills cancer cells but leaves healthy ones untouched; 
regenerative medicine that ends the agonizing wait for an organ transplant. 
 Imagine a lightweight vest for soldiers and police officers that can stop 
armor-piercing bullets; educational software that’s as effective and 
engaging as a personal tutor; intelligent prosthetics that can enable a 
wounded veteran to play the piano again.  And now imagine all the workers 
and small business owners and consumers who would benefit from these 
discoveries.

We can’t know for certain what the future will bring.  We can’t guess with 
100 percent accuracy what industries and innovations will next shape our 
world.  I’m sure there were times when this city couldn’t imagine life 
without steel mills and heavy smog that filled these streets.  And when 
that industry shrank and so many jobs were lost, who could have guessed 
that Pittsburgh would fare better than many other Rust Belt cities, and 
reemerge as a center for technology and green jobs, health care, and 
education?  Who would have thought that the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center’s logo would one day adorn the U.S. Steel Tower, or that 
this institute -- Carnegie Mellon -- would be the region’s largest 
employer?

All of this came to be because as a community, you prepared and adapted and 
invested in a better future -- even if you weren’t always sure what that 
future would look like.

And that’s what America does.  That’s what we’ve always done.  The 
interests of the status quo will always have the most vocal and powerful 
defenders at every level of government.  There will always be lobbyists for 
the banks or the insurance industry that doesn’t want more regulation; or 
the corporation that would prefer to see more tax breaks instead of more 
investments in infrastructure or education.  And let’s face it -- a lot of 
us find the prospect of change scary, even when we know the status quo 
isn’t working for us.

But there’s no natural lobby for the clean energy company that may start a 
few years from now.  There’s no natural lobby for the research that may 
lead to a lifesaving medical breakthrough.  There’s no natural lobby for 
the student who may not be able to afford a college education, but if they 
got one could end up making discoveries that would transform America and 
the world.

It’s our job as a nation to advocate on behalf of the America that we hope 
for -- to make decisions that will benefit the next generation -- even if 
it’s not always popular; even if we can’t always see those benefits in the 
short-term.  We make decisions like this on behalf of our own children 
every single day.  And while it’s harder to do with an entire country as 
large and diverse as ours, it’s no less important.

The role of government has never been to plan every detail or dictate every 
outcome.  At its best, government has simply knocked away barriers to 
opportunity and laid the foundation for a better future.  Our people -- 
with all their drive and ingenuity -- always end up building the rest.  And 
if we can do that again -- if we can continue building that foundation and 
making those hard decisions on behalf of the next generation -- I have no 
doubt that we will leave our children the America that we all hope for.

Thank you, everybody.  God bless you.  God bless the United States of 
America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.