 

 

Barack Obama

Eulogy for Dr. Dorothy Height

delivered 29 April 2010, Washington National Cathedral, Washington, D.C.

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Please be seated.  Let me begin by saying a word to Dr. Dorothy Height’s 
sister, Ms. Aldridge.  To some, she was a mentor.  To all, she was a 
friend.  But to you, she was family, and my family offers yours our 
sympathy for your loss. 

We are gathered here today to celebrate the life, and mourn the passing, of 
Dr. Dorothy Height.  It is fitting that we do so here, in our National 
Cathedral of Saint Peter and Saint Paul.  Here, in a place of great honor.  
Here, in the House of God.  Surrounded by the love of family and of 
friends.  The love in this sanctuary is a testament to a life lived 
righteously; a life that lifted other lives; a life that changed this 
country for the better over the course of nearly one century here on Earth. 


Michelle and I didn’t know Dr. Height as well, or as long, as many of you.  
We were reminded during a previous moment in the service, when you have a 
nephew who’s 88 -- you’ve lived a full life.

But we did come to know her in the early days of my campaign.  And we came 
to love her, as so many loved her.  We came to love her stories.  And we 
loved her smile.  And we loved those hats -- that she wore like a crown -- 
regal.  In the White House, she was a regular.  She came by not once, not 
twice -- 21 times she stopped by the White House.  Took part in our 
discussions around health care reform in her final months.  

Last February, I was scheduled to see her and other civil rights leaders to 
discuss the pressing problems of unemployment -- Reverend Sharpton, Ben 
Jealous of the NAACP, Marc Morial of the National Urban League.  Then we 
discovered that Washington was about to be blanketed by the worst blizzard 
in record -- two feet of snow. 

So I suggested to one of my aides, we should call   Dr. Height and say 
we're happy to reschedule the meeting.  Certainly if the others come, she 
should not feel obliged. True to form, Dr. Height insisted on coming, 
despite the blizzard, never mind that she was in a wheelchair.  She was not 
about to let just a bunch of men -- in this meeting. It was only when the 
car literally could not get to her driveway that she reluctantly decided to 
stay home.  But she still sent a message -- about what needed to be done. 

And I tell that story partly because it brings a smile to my face, but also 
because it captures the quiet, dogged, dignified persistence that all of us 
who loved Dr. Height came to know so well -- an attribute that we 
understand she learned early on. 

Born in the capital of the old Confederacy, brought north by her parents as 
part of that great migration, Dr. Height was raised in another age, in a 
different America, beyond the experience of many.  It’s hard to imagine, I 
think, life in the first decades of that last century when the elderly 
woman that we knew was only a girl.  Jim Crow ruled the South.  The Klan 
was on the rise -- a powerful political force.  Lynching was all too often 
the penalty for the offense of black skin.  Slaves had been freed within 
living memory, but too often, their children, their grandchildren remained 
captive, because they were denied justice and denied equality, denied 
opportunity, denied a chance to pursue their dreams. 

The progress that followed -- progress that so many of you helped to 
achieve, progress that ultimately made it possible for Michelle and me to 
be here as President and First Lady -- that progress came slowly.

Progress came from the collective effort of multiple generations of 
Americans.  From preachers and lawyers, and thinkers and doers, men and 
women like Dr. Height, who took it upon themselves -- often at great risk 
-- to change this country for the better.  From men like W.E.B Du Bois and 
A. Philip Randolph; women like Mary McLeod Bethune and Betty Friedan -- 
they’re Americans whose names we know.  They are leaders whose legacies we 
teach.  They are giants who fill our history books.  Well, Dr. Dorothy 
Height deserves a place in this pantheon.  She, too, deserves a place in 
our history books. She, too, deserves a place of honor in America’s memory.

Look at her body of work.  Desegregating the YWCA.  Laying the groundwork 
for integration on Wednesdays in Mississippi.  Lending pigs to poor farmers 
as a sustainable source of income.  Strategizing with civil rights leaders, 
holding her own, the only woman in the room, Queen Esther to this Moses 
Generation -- even as she led the National Council of Negro Women with 
vision and energy -- with vision and energy, vision and class. 

But we remember her not solely for all she did during the civil rights 
movement.  We remember her for all she did over a lifetime, behind the 
scenes, to broaden the movement’s reach.  To shine a light on stable 
families and tight-knit communities.  To make us see the drive for civil 
rights and women’s rights not as a separate struggle, but as part of a 
larger movement to secure the rights of all humanity, regardless of gender, 
regardless of race, regardless of ethnicity.

It’s an unambiguous record of righteous work, worthy of remembrance, worthy 
of recognition.  And yet, one of the ironies is, is that year after year, 
decade in, decade out, Dr. Height went about her work quietly, without 
fanfare, without self-promotion.  She never cared about who got the credit. 
 She didn’t need to see her picture in the papers.  She understood that the 
movement gathered strength from the bottom up, those unheralded men and 
women who don't always make it into the history books but who steadily 
insisted on their dignity, on their manhood and womanhood.  She wasn’t 
interested in credit.  What she cared about was the cause.  The cause of 
justice.  The cause of equality.  The cause of opportunity.  Freedom’s 
cause. 

And that willingness to subsume herself, that humility and that grace, is 
why we honor Dr. Dorothy Height.  As it is written in the Gospel of 
Matthew:  “For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles 
himself will be exalted.”  I don’t think the author of the Gospel would 
mind me rephrasing:  “whoever humbles herself will be exalted.” 

One of my favorite moments with Dr. Height -- this was just a few months 
ago -- we had decided to put up the Emancipation Proclamation in the Oval 
Office, and we invited some elders to share reflections of the movement.  
And she came and it was a inter-generational event, so we had young 
children there, as well as elders, and the elders were asked to share 
stories.  And she talked about attending a dinner in the 1940s at the home 
of Dr. Benjamin Mays, then president of Morehouse College.  And seated at 
the table that evening was a 15-year-old student, “a gifted child,” as she 
described him, filled with a sense of purpose, who was trying to decide 
whether to enter medicine, or law, or the ministry. 

And many years later, after that gifted child had become a gifted preacher 
-- I’m sure he had been told to be on his best behavior -- after he led a 
bus boycott in Montgomery, and inspired a nation with his dreams, he 
delivered a sermon on what he called “the drum major instinct” -- a sermon 
that said we all have the desire to be first, we all want to be at the 
front of the line. 

The great test of a life, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said, is to harness 
that instinct; to redirect it towards advancing the greater good; toward 
changing a community and a country for the better; toward doing the Lord’s 
work.

I sometimes think Dr. King must have had Dorothy Height in mind when he 
gave that speech.  For Dorothy Height met the test.  Dorothy Height 
embodied that instinct.  Dorothy Height was a drum major for justice.  A 
drum major for equality.  A drum major for freedom.  A drum major for 
service.  And the lesson she would want us to leave with today -- a lesson 
she lived out each and every day -- is that we can all be first in service. 
 We can all be drum majors for a righteous cause.  So let us live out that 
lesson.  Let us honor her life by changing this country for the better as 
long as we are blessed to live.  May God bless Dr. Dorothy Height and the 
union that she made more perfect.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.