 

 

Barack Obama


Awarding the Medal of Honor to Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta

delivered 16 November 2010, East Room, The White House

 

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Good afternoon, everybody.  Please be seated.  On behalf of Michelle and 
myself, welcome to the White House.  Thank you, Chaplain Carver, for that 
beautiful invocation.

Of all the privileges that come with serving as President of the United 
States, I have none greater than serving as Commander-in-Chief of the 
finest military that the world has ever known.  And of all the military 
decorations that a President and a nation can bestow, there is none higher 
than the Medal of Honor.

Today is particularly special.  Since the end of the Vietnam War, the Medal 
of Honor has been awarded nine times for conspicuous gallantry in an 
ongoing or recent conflict.  Sadly, our nation has been unable to present 
this decoration to the recipients themselves, because each gave his life -- 
his last full measure of devotion -- for our country.  Indeed, as 
President, I have presented the Medal of Honor three times -- and each time 
to the families of a fallen hero.

Today, therefore, marks the first time in nearly 40 years that the 
recipient of the Medal of Honor for an ongoing conflict has been able to 
come to the White House and accept this recognition in person.  It is my 
privilege to present our nation’s highest military decoration, the Medal of 
Honor, to a soldier as humble as he is heroic: Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. 
Giunta.

Now, I’m going to go off-script here for a second and just say I really 
like this guy.  I think anybody -- we all just get a sense of people and 
who they are, and when you meet Sal and you meet his family, you are just 
absolutely convinced that this is what America is all about.  And it just 
makes you proud.  And so this is a joyous occasion for me -- something that 
I have been looking forward to.

The Medal of Honor reflects the gratitude of an entire nation.  So we are 
also joined here today by several members of Congress, including both 
senators and several representatives from Staff Sergeant Giunta’s home 
state of Iowa.  We are also joined by leaders from across my administration 
and the Department of Defense, including the Secretary of Defense, Robert 
Gates; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen.  Where’s 
Mike?  There he is, right there.  Army Secretary John McHugh; and Chief of 
Staff of the Army, General George Casey.

We are especially honored to be joined by Staff Sergeant Giunta’s fellow 
soldiers, his teammates and brothers from Battle Company, 2d of the 503d of 
the 173d Airborne Brigade; and several members of that rarest of 
fraternities that now welcomes him into its ranks -- the Medal of Honor 
Society.  Please give them a big round of applause.

We also welcome the friends and family who made Staff Sergeant Giunta into 
the man that he is, including his lovely wife, Jenny; and his parents, 
Steven and Rosemary; as well as his siblings, who are here.  It was his 
mother, after all, who apparently taught him as a young boy in small-town 
Iowa how to remove the screen from his bedroom window in case of fire.  
What she didn’t know was that by teaching Sal how to jump from his bedroom 
and sneaking off in the dead of night, she was unleashing a future 
paratrooper -- who would one day fight in the rugged mountains of 
Afghanistan 7,000 miles away.

During the first of his two tours of duty in Afghanistan, Staff Sergeant 
Giunta was forced early on to come to terms with the loss of comrades and 
friends.  His team leader at the time gave him a piece of advice:  “You 
just try -- you just got to try to do everything you can when it’s your 
time to do it.”  You’ve just got to try to do everything you can when it’s 
your time to do it.

Salvatore Giunta’s time came on October 25, 2007.  He was a Specialist 
then, just 22 years old.

Sal and his platoon were several days into a mission in the Korengal Valley 
-- the most dangerous valley in northeast Afghanistan.  The moon was full.  
The light it cast was enough to travel by without using their night-vision 
goggles.  With heavy gear on their backs, and air support overhead, they 
made their way single file down a rocky ridge crest, along terrain so steep 
that sliding was sometimes easier than walking.

They hadn’t traveled a quarter mile before the silence was shattered.  It 
was an ambush, so close that the cracks of the guns and the whizz of the 
bullets were simultaneous.  Tracer fire hammered the ridge at hundreds of 
rounds per minute -- “more,” Sal said later, “than the stars in the sky.”

The Apache gunships above saw it all, but couldn’t engage with the enemy so 
close to our soldiers.  The next platoon heard the shooting, but were too 
far away to join the fight in time.

And the two lead men were hit by enemy fire and knocked down instantly.  
When the third was struck in the helmet and fell to the ground, Sal charged 
headlong into the wall of bullets to pull him to safety behind what little 
cover there was.  As he did, Sal was hit twice -- one round slamming into 
his body armor, the other shattering a weapon slung across his back.

They were pinned down, and two wounded Americans still lay up ahead.  So 
Sal and his comrades regrouped and counterattacked.  They threw grenades, 
using the explosions as cover to run forward, shooting at the muzzle 
flashes still erupting from the trees.  Then they did it again.  And again. 
 Throwing grenades, charging ahead.  Finally, they reached one of their 
men.  He’d been shot twice in the leg, but he had kept returning fire until 
his gun jammed.

As another soldier tended to his wounds, Sal sprinted ahead, at every step 
meeting relentless enemy fire with his own.  He crested a hill alone, with 
no cover but the dust kicked up by the storm of bullets still biting into 
the ground.  There, he saw a chilling sight:  the silhouettes of two 
insurgents carrying the other wounded American away -- who happened to be 
one of Sal’s best friends.  Sal never broke stride.  He leapt forward.  He 
took aim.  He killed one of the insurgents and wounded the other, who ran 
off.

Sal found his friend alive, but badly wounded.  Sal had saved him from the 
enemy -- now he had to try to save his life.  Even as bullets impacted all 
around him, Sal grabbed his friend by the vest and dragged him to cover.  
For nearly half an hour, Sal worked to stop the bleeding and help his 
friend breathe until the MEDEVAC arrived to lift the wounded from the 
ridge.  American gunships worked to clear the enemy from the hills.  And 
with the battle over, First Platoon picked up their gear and resumed their 
march through the valley.  They continued their mission.

It had been as intense and violent a firefight as any soldier will 
experience.  By the time it was finished, every member of First Platoon had 
shrapnel or a bullet hole in their gear.  Five were wounded.  And two gave 
their lives:  Sal’s friend, Sergeant Joshua C. Brennan, and the platoon 
medic, Specialist Hugo V. Mendoza.

Now, the parents of Joshua and Hugo are here today.  And I know that there 
are no words that, even three years later, can ease the ache in your hearts 
or repay the debt that America owes to you.  But on behalf of a grateful 
nation, let me express profound thanks to your sons’ service and their 
sacrifice.  And could the parents of Joshua and Hugo please stand briefly?

Now, I already mentioned I like this guy, Sal.  And as I found out myself 
when I first spoke with him on the phone and when we met in the Oval Office 
today, he is a low-key guy, a humble guy, and he doesn’t seek the 
limelight.  And he’ll tell you that he didn’t do anything special; that he 
was just doing his job; that any of his brothers in the unit would do the 
same thing.  In fact, he just lived up to what his team leader instructed 
him to do years before:  “You do everything you can.”

Staff Sergeant Giunta, repeatedly and without hesitation, you charged 
forward through extreme enemy fire, embodying the warrior ethos that says, 
“I will never leave a fallen comrade.”  Your actions disrupted a 
devastating ambush before it could claim more lives.  Your courage 
prevented the capture of an American soldier and brought that soldier back 
to his family.  You may believe that you don’t deserve this honor, but it 
was your fellow soldiers who recommended you for it.  In fact, your 
commander specifically said in his recommendation that you lived up to the 
standards of the most decorated American soldier of World War II, Audie 
Murphy, who famously repelled an overwhelming enemy attack by himself for 
one simple reason:  “They were killing my friends.”

That’s why Salvatore Giunta risked his life for his fellow soldiers -- 
because they would risk their lives for him.  That’s what fueled his 
bravery -- not just the urgent impulse to have their backs, but the 
absolute confidence that they had his.  One of them, Sal has said -- of 
these young men that he was with, he said, “They are just as much of me as 
I am.”  They are just as much of me as I am.

So I would ask Sal’s team, all of Battle Company who were with him that 
day, to please stand and be recognized as well. Gentlemen, thank you for 
your service.  We’re all in your debt.  And I’m proud to be your 
Commander-in-Chief.

These are the soldiers of our Armed Forces.  Highly trained.  
Battle-hardened.  Each with specialized roles and responsibilities, but all 
with one thing in common -- they volunteered.  In an era when it’s never 
been more tempting to chase personal ambition or narrow self-interest, they 
chose the opposite.  They felt a tug; they answered a call; they said, 
“I’ll go.”  And for the better part of a decade, they have endured tour 
after tour in distant and difficult places; they have protected us from 
danger; they have given others the opportunity to earn a better and more 
secure life.

They are the courageous men and women serving in Afghanistan even as we 
speak.  They keep clear focus on their mission:  to deny safe haven for 
terrorists who would attack our country, to break the back of the Taliban 
insurgency, to build the Afghans’ capacity to defend themselves.  They 
possess the steely resolve to see their mission through.  They are made of 
the same strong stuff as the troops in this room, and I am absolutely 
confident that they will continue to succeed in the missions that we give 
them, in Afghanistan and beyond.

After all, our brave servicemen and women and their families have done 
everything they’ve been asked to do.  They have been everything that we 
have asked them to be.  “If I am a hero,” Sal has said, “then every man who 
stands around me, every woman in the military, every person who defends 
this country is.”  And he’s right.

This medal today is a testament to his uncommon valor, but also to the 
parents and the community that raised him; the military that trained him; 
and all the men and women who served by his side.

All of them deserve our enduring thanks and gratitude. They represent a 
small fraction of the American population, but they and the families who 
await their safe return carry far more than their fair share of our burden. 
 They fight halfway around the globe, but they do it in hopes that our 
children and our grandchildren won’t have to.

They are the very best part of us.  They are our friends, our family, our 
neighbors, our classmates, our coworkers.  They are why our banner still 
waves, our founding principles still shine, and our country -- the United 
States of America -- still stands as a force for good all over the world.

So, please join me in welcoming Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta for the 
reading of the citation.

MILITARY AIDE:  The President of the United States of America, authorized 
by act of Congress, March 3, 1863, has awarded, in the name of Congress, 
the Medal of Honor to then Specialist Salvatore A. Giunta, United States 
Army.

Specialist Salvatore A. Giunta distinguished himself conspicuously by 
gallantry and intrepidity, at the risk of his life, above and beyond the 
call of duty, in action, with an armed enemy in the Korengal Valley, 
Afghanistan, on October 25, 2007.

While conducting a patrol as team leader, with Company B, 2d Battalion 
Airborne, 503d Infantry Regiment, Specialist Giunta and his team were 
navigating through harsh terrain when they were ambushed by a well-armed 
and well-coordinated insurgent force.

While under heavy enemy fire, Specialist Giunta immediately sprinted 
towards cover and engaged the enemy.  Seeing that his squad leader had 
fallen, and believing that he had been injured, Specialist Giunta exposed 
himself to withering enemy fire and raced towards his squad leader, helped 
him to cover and administered medical aid.

While administering first aid, enemy fire struck Special Giunta’s body 
armor and his secondary weapon.  Without regard to the ongoing fire, 
Specialist Giunta engaged the enemy before prepping and throwing grenades, 
using the explosions for cover in order to conceal his position.

Attempting to reach additional wounded fellow soldiers who were separated 
from the squad, Specialist Giunta and his team encountered a barrage of 
enemy fire that forced them to the ground.  The team continued forward, and 
upon reaching the wounded soldiers, Specialist Giunta realized that another 
soldier was still separated from the element.  Specialist Giunta then 
advanced forward on his own initiative.  As he crested the top of a hill, 
he observed two insurgents carrying away an American soldier.  He 
immediately engaged the enemy, killing one and wounding the other.  Upon 
reaching the wounded soldier, he began to provide medical aid, as his squad 
caught up and provided security.

Specialist Giunta’s unwavering courage, selflessness and decisive 
leadership while under extreme enemy fire were integral to his platoon’s 
ability to defeat an enemy ambush and recover a fellow American soldier 
from the enemy.

Specialist Salvatore A. Giunta’s extraordinary heroism and selflessness 
above and beyond the call of duty are in keeping with the highest 
traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, 
Company B, 2d Battalion Airborne, 503d Infantry Regiment and the United 
States Army.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image #2 (Chuck Kennedy) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image #2 = Public domain. Image #1 = 
Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.