 

 

Barack Obama

Address on Health Care at George Mason University

delivered 19 March 2010

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Hello, George Mason! How’s everybody doing today?  Thank you.  Thank you.  
Thank you.  Thank you. 

AUDIENCE:  Yes we can!  Yes we can!  Yes we can!  Yes we can!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, everybody.  It’s good to be back with some real 
Patriots.  I want to thank Dr. Alan Merten, the President of George Mason 
University, and his family. Dr. Shirley Travis, who’s here -- thank you.  
And Coach Larranaga, we were just talking a little bit about -- looking 
forward to picking George Mason in my bracket next year.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE PRESIDENT:  I love you! I don’t know if some of you remember, but I 
visited this university about three years ago for the first time.  This was 
at just the dawn of my presidential campaign.  It was about three weeks 
old, I think.  We didn’t have a lot of money.  We didn’t have a lot of 
staff.  Nobody could pronounce my name. Our poll numbers were quite low.  
And a lot of people -- a lot of people in Washington, they didn’t think it 
was even worth us trying.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yes we can!

THE PRESIDENT:  They had counted us out before we had even started, because 
the Washington conventional wisdom was that change was too hard.  But what 
we had even then was a group of students here at George Mason -- who 
believed that if we worked hard enough and if we fought long enough, if we 
organized enough supporters, then we could finally bring change to that 
city across the river.  We believed that despite all the resistance, we 
could make Washington work.  Not for the lobbyists, not for the special 
interests, not for the politicians, but for the American people.

And now three years later, I stand before you, one year after the worst 
recession since the Great Depression, having to make a bunch of tough 
decisions, having had a tumultuous debate, having had a lot of folks who 
were skeptical that we could get anything done.  And right now, we are at 
the point where we are going to do something historic this weekend.  That’s 
what this health care vote is all about.

AUDIENCE:  Yes we can!  Yes we can!  Yes we can!

THE PRESIDENT:  A few miles from here, Congress is in the final stages of a 
fateful debate about the future of health insurance in America.   It’s a 
debate that’s raged not just for the past year but for the past century.  
One thing when you’re in the White House, you’ve got a lot of history books 
around you.  And so I’ve been reading up on the history here.  Teddy 
Roosevelt, Republican, was the first to advocate that everybody get health 
care in this country. Every decade since, we’ve had Presidents, Republicans 
and Democrats, from Harry Truman to Richard Nixon to JFK to Lyndon Johnson 
to -- every single President has said we need to fix this system.  It’s a 
debate that’s not only about the cost of health care, not just about what 
we’re doing about folks who aren’t getting a fair shake from their 
insurance companies.  It’s a debate about the character of our country-- 
about whether we can still meet the challenges of our time; whether we 
still have the guts and the courage to give every citizen, not just some, 
the chance to reach their dreams.

At the heart of this debate is the question of whether we’re going to 
accept a system that works better for the insurance companies than it does 
for the American people -- because if this vote fails, the insurance 
industry will continue to run amok.  They will continue to deny people 
coverage.  They will continue to deny people care.  They will continue to 
jack up premiums 40 or 50 or 60 percent as they have in the last few weeks 
without any accountability whatsoever.  They know this.  And that’s why 
their lobbyists are stalking the halls of Congress as we speak, and pouring 
millions of dollars into negative ads.  And that’s why they are doing 
everything they can to kill this bill. 

So the only question left is this:  Are we going to let the special 
interests win once again?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  Or are we going to make this vote a victory for the 
American people?

AUDIENCE:  Yes we can!  Yes we can!

THE PRESIDENT:  George Mason, the time for reform is right now.  Not a year 
from now, not five years from now, not 10 years from now, not 20 years from 
now -- it’s now.  We have had -- we have had a year of hard debate.  Every 
proposal has been put on the table.  Every argument has been made.  We have 
incorporated the best ideas from Democrats and from Republicans into a 
final proposal that builds on the system of private insurance that we 
currently have.  The insurance industry and its supporters in Congress have 
tried to portray this as radical change.

Now, I just -- I just want to be clear, everybody.  Listen up, because we 
have heard every crazy thing about this bill.  You remember.  First we 
heard this was a government takeover of health care.  Then we heard that 
this was going to kill granny.  Then we heard, well, illegal immigrants are 
going to be getting the main benefits of this bill.  There has been -- they 
have thrown every argument at this legislative effort.  But when it -- it 
turns out, at the end of the day, what we’re talking about is common-sense 
reform.  That’s all we’re talking about.

If you like your doctor, you’re going to be able to keep your doctor.  If 
you like your plan, keep your plan.  I don’t believe we should give 
government or the insurance companies more control over health care in 
America.  I think it’s time to give you, the American people, more control 
over your health.

And since you’ve been hearing a whole bunch of nonsense, let’s just be 
clear on what exactly the proposal that they’re going to vote on in a 
couple of days will do.  It’s going to -- it’s going to change health care 
in three ways.  Number one, we are going to end the worst practices of 
insurance companies.  This is -- this is a patient’s bill of rights on 
steroids.  Starting this year, thousands of uninsured Americans with 
preexisting conditions will be able to purchase health insurance, some for 
the very first time. Starting this year, insurance companies will be banned 
forever from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions.  
Starting this year, insurance companies will be banned from dropping your 
coverage when you get sick.  And they’ve been spending a lot of time 
weeding out people who are sick so they don’t have to pay benefits that 
people have already paid for.  Those practices will end.

If this reform becomes law, all new insurance plans will be required to 
offer free preventive care to their customers. If you buy a new plan, there 
won’t be lifetime or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care you 
receive from your insurance companies.  And by the way, to all the young 
people here today, starting this year if you don’t have insurance, all new 
plans will allow you to stay on your parents’ plan until you are 26 years 
old.

So you’ll have some security when you graduate.  If that first job doesn’t 
offer coverage, you’re going to know that you’ve got coverage.  Because as 
you start your lives and your careers, the last thing you should be worried 
about is whether you’re going to go broke or make your parents broke just 
because you get sick.  All right?

So that’s the first thing this legislation does -- the toughest insurance 
reforms in history.  And by the way, when you talk to Republicans and you 
say, well, are you against this?  A lot of them will say, no, no, that 
part’s okay. All right, so let’s go to the second part.

The second thing that would change about the current system is that for the 
first time, small business owners and people who are being priced out of 
the insurance market will have the same kind of choice of private health 
insurance that members of Congress give to themselves.

So what this means is, is that small business owners and middle-class 
families, they’re going to be able to be part of what’s called a big pool 
of customers that can negotiate with the insurance companies.  And that 
means they can purchase more affordable coverage in a competitive 
marketplace. So they’re not out there on their own just shopping.  They’re 
part of millions of people who are shopping together.  And if you still 
can’t afford the insurance in this new marketplace, even though it’s going 
to be cheaper than what you can get on your own, then we’re going to offer 
you tax credits to help you afford it -– tax credits that add up to the 
largest middle-class tax cut for health care in American history.

Now, these tax credits cost money.  Helping folks who can’t afford it right 
now, that does cost some money.  It costs about $100 billion per year.  But 
most of the cost --

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  That’s all right.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, here’s the reason it’s all right. Here’s the reason 
it’s all right.  It wouldn’t be all right if we weren’t paying for it -- 
and by the way, that's what a previous Congress did with the prescription 
drug plan.  All they did was they gave the benefits and they didn’t pay for 
it. 

That's not what we’re doing.  What we’re doing is we’re taking money that 
America is already spending in the health care system, but is being spent 
poorly, that's going to waste and fraud and unwarranted subsidies for the 
insurance companies, and we’re taking that money and making sure those 
dollars go towards making insurance more affordable.

So we’re going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies to insurance 
companies. We’re going to set a new fee on insurance companies that stand 
to gain millions of new customers.  So here’s the point:  This proposal is 
paid for.  Unlike some of these previous schemes in Washington, we’re not 
taking out the credit card in your name, young people, and charging it to 
you.  We’re making sure this thing is paid for. All right, so that's the 
second thing.

Now, the third thing that this legislation does is it brings down the cost 
of health care for families and businesses and the federal government. 
Americans who are buying comparable coverage in the individual market would 
end up seeing their premiums go down 14 to 20 percent.  Americans who get 
their insurance through the workplace, cost savings could be as much as 
$3,000 less per employer than if we do nothing.  Now, think about that.  
That’s $3,000 your employer doesn’t have to pay, which means maybe she can 
afford to give you a raise.

And by the way, if you’re curious, well, how exactly are we saving these 
costs?  Well, part of it is, again, we’re not spending our health care 
money wisely.  So, for example, you go to the hospital or you go to a 
doctor and you may take five tests, when it turns out if you just took one 
test, then you send an e-mail around with the test results, you wouldn’t be 
paying $500 per test.  So we’re trying to save money across the system. And 
altogether, our cost-cutting measures would reduce most people’s premiums.  
And here’s the bonus:  It brings down our deficit by more than $1 trillion 
over the next two decades.

So you’ve got -- you’ve got a whole bunch of opponents of this bill saying, 
well, we can’t afford this; we’re fiscal conservatives.  These are the same 
guys who passed that prescription drug bill without paying for it, adding 
over $1 trillion to our deficit -- “Oh, we can’t afford this.”  But this 
bill, according to the Congressional Budget Office -- which is the referee, 
the scorekeeper for how much things cost -- says we’ll save us $1 trillion. 
 Not only can we afford to do this, we can’t afford not to do this. 

So here’s the bottom line.  That’s our proposal:  toughest insurance 
reforms in history, one of the biggest deficit-reduction plans in history, 
and the opportunity to give millions of people -- some of them in your own 
family, some of the people who are in this auditorium today -- an 
opportunity for the first time in a very long time to get affordable health 
care.  That’s it.  That’s what we’re trying to do. That’s what the Congress 
of the United States is about to vote on this weekend. 

Now, it would be nice if we were just kind of examining the substance, we 
were walking through the details of the plan, what it means for you.  But 
that’s not what the cable stations like to talk about. What they like to 
talk about is the politics of the vote.  What does this mean in November?  
What does it mean to the poll numbers?  Is this more of an advantage for 
Democrats or Republicans?  What’s it going to mean for Obama?  Will his 
presidency be crippled, or will he be the comeback kid? That’s what they 
like to talk about.  That’s what they like to talk about.  I understand.

One of the things you realize is basically that a lot of reporting in 
Washington, it’s just like SportsCenter.  It’s considered a sport, and 
who’s up and who’s down, and everybody’s keeping score.  And you got the 
teams going at it.  It’s Rock ‘Em Sock ‘Em Robots.

Look, let me say this, George Mason:  I don’t know how this plays 
politically.  Nobody really does.  I mean, there’s been so much 
misinformation and so much confusion and the climate at times during the 
course of this year has been so toxic and people are so anxious because the 
economy has been going through such a tough time.  I don’t know what’s 
going to happen with the politics on this thing.  I don’t know whether my 
poll numbers go down, they go up.  I don’t know what happens in terms of 
Democrats versus Republicans. 

But here’s what I do know.  I do know that this bill, this legislation, is 
going to be enormously important for America’s future. I do know the impact 
it will have on the millions of Americans who need our help, and the 
millions more who may not need help right now but a year from now or five 
years from now or 10 years from now, if they have some bad luck; if, heaven 
forbid, they get sick; if they’ve got a preexisting condition; if their 
child has a preexisting condition; if they lose their job; if they want to 
start a company -- I know the impact it will have on them.

I know what this reform will mean for people like Leslie Banks, a single 
mom I met in Pennsylvania.  She’s trying to put her daughter through 
college, just like probably some of your moms and dads are trying to put 
you through college.  And her insurance company just sent her a letter 
saying they plan to double her premium this year -– have it go up 100 
percent.  And she can’t afford it.  So now she’s trying to figure out, am I 
going to keep my insurance or am I going to keep my daughter in college?  
Leslie Banks needs us to pass this reform bill.

I know what reform will mean for people like Laura Klitzka.  I met Laura up 
in Green Bay, Wisconsin, while I was campaigning.  She thought she had 
beaten her breast cancer.  Then she discovered it had spread to her bones.  
And she and her insurance -- she and her husband, they were lucky enough to 
have insurance, but their medical bills still landed them in debt.  So now 
she’s spending time worrying about the debt when all she wants to do is 
think about how she can spend time with her two kids.  Laura needs us to 
pass this reform bill.

I know what reform will mean for people like Natoma Canfield.  When her 
insurance company raised her rates, she had to give up her coverage, even 
though she had been paying thousands of dollars in premiums for years, 
because she had beaten cancer 11 years earlier.  They kept on jacking up 
her rates, jacking up her rates.  Finally she thought she was going to lose 
her home.  She was scared that a sudden illness would lead to financial 
ruin, but she had no choice.  Right now she’s lying in a hospital bed, 
faced with paying for such an illness, after she had to give up her health 
insurance.  She’s praying that somehow she can afford to get well.  She 
knows that it is time for reform.   

So George Mason, when you hear people saying, well, why don't we do this 
more incrementally, why don't we do this a little more piecemeal, why don't 
we just help the folks that are easiest to help -- my answer is the time 
for reform is now.  We have waited long enough.  We have waited long 
enough. 

And in just a few days, a century-long struggle will culminate in a 
historic vote. We’ve had historic votes before.  We had a historic vote to 
put Social Security in place to make sure that our elderly did not live out 
their golden years in poverty.  We had a historic vote in civil rights to 
make sure that everybody was equal under the law. As messy as this process 
is, as frustrating as this process is, as ugly as this process can be, when 
we have faced such decisions in our past, this nation, time and time again, 
has chosen to extend its promise to more of its people.

You know, the naysayers said that Social Security would lead to socialism. 
But the men and women of Congress stood fast and created that program that 
lifted millions out of poverty.

There were cynics that warned that Medicare would lead to a government 
takeover of our entire health care system, and that it didn’t have much 
support in the polls.  But Democrats and Republicans refused to back down, 
and they made sure that our seniors had the health care that they needed 
and could have some basic peace of mind.

So previous generations, those who came before us, made the decision that 
our seniors and our poor, through Medicaid, should not be forced to go 
without health care just because they couldn’t afford it.  Today it falls 
to this generation to decide whether we will make that same promise to 
hardworking middle-class families and small businesses all across America, 
and to young Americans like yourselves who are just starting out. 

So here’s my bottom line.  I know this has been a difficult journey.  I 
know this will be a tough vote.  I know that everybody is counting votes 
right now in Washington.  But I also remember a quote I saw on a plaque in 
the White House the other day.  It’s hanging in the same room where I 
demanded answers from insurance executives and just received a bunch of 
excuses.  And it was a quote from Teddy Roosevelt, the person who first 
called for health care reform -- that Republican -- all those years ago.  
And it said, “Aggressively fighting for the right is the noblest sport the 
world affords.”

Now, I don’t know how passing health care will play politically -- but I 
know it’s right.  Teddy Roosevelt knew it was right.  Harry Truman knew 
that it was right.  Ted Kennedy knew it was right.  And if you believe that 
it’s right, then you've got to help us finish this fight.  You've got to 
stand with me just like you did three years ago and make some phone calls 
and knock on some doors, talk to your parents, talk to your friends.  Do 
not quit, do not give up, we keep on going.  We are going to get this done. 
 We are going to make history.  We are going to fix health care in America 
with your help. 

God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.