 

 

Barack Obama

Address to the Nation on HOR Health Care Bill Passage

delivered 21 March 2010

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good evening, everybody. Tonight, after nearly 100 years of talk and 
frustration, after decades of trying, and a year of sustained effort and 
debate, the United States Congress finally declared that America’s workers 
and America's families and America's small businesses deserve the security 
of knowing that here, in this country, neither illness nor accident should 
endanger the dreams they’ve worked a lifetime to achieve.

Tonight, at a time when the pundits said it was no longer possible, we rose 
above the weight of our politics. We pushed back on the undue influence of 
special interests. We didn't give in to mistrust or to cynicism or to fear. 
Instead, we proved that we are still a people capable of doing big things 
and tackling our biggest challenges. We proved that this government -- a 
government of the people and by the people -- still works for the people.

I want to thank every member of Congress who stood up tonight with courage 
and conviction to make health care reform a reality. And I know this wasn’t 
an easy vote for a lot of people. But it was the right vote. I want to 
thank Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her extraordinary leadership, and Majority 
Leader Steny Hoyer and Majority Whip Jim Clyburn for their commitment to 
getting the job done. I want to thank my outstanding Vice President, Joe 
Biden, and my wonderful Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen 
Sebelius, for their fantastic work on this issue. I want to thank the many 
staffers in Congress, and my own incredible staff in the White House, who 
have worked tirelessly over the past year with Americans of all walks of 
life to forge a reform package finally worthy of the people we were sent 
here to serve.

Today’s vote answers the dreams of so many who have fought for this reform. 
To every unsung American who took the time to sit down and write a letter 
or type out an e-mail hoping your voice would be heard -- it has been heard 
tonight. To the untold numbers who knocked on doors and made phone calls, 
who organized and mobilized out of a firm conviction that change in this 
country comes not from the top down, but from the bottom up -- let me 
reaffirm that conviction: This moment is possible because of you.

Most importantly, today’s vote answers the prayers of every American who 
has hoped deeply for something to be done about a health care system that 
works for insurance companies, but not for ordinary people. For most 
Americans, this debate has never been about abstractions, the fight between 
right and left, Republican and Democrat -- it’s always been about something 
far more personal. It’s about every American who knows the shock of opening 
an envelope to see that their premiums just shot up again when times are 
already tough enough. It’s about every parent who knows the desperation of 
trying to cover a child with a chronic illness only to be told “no” again 
and again and again. It’s about every small business owner forced to choose 
between insuring employees and staying open for business. They are why we 
committed ourselves to this cause.

Tonight’s vote is not a victory for any one party -- it's a victory for 
them. It's a victory for the American people. And it's a victory for common 
sense.

Now, it probably goes without saying that tonight’s vote will give rise to 
a frenzy of instant analysis. There will be tallies of Washington winners 
and losers, predictions about what it means for Democrats and Republicans, 
for my poll numbers, for my administration. But long after the debate fades 
away and the prognostication fades away and the dust settles, what will 
remain standing is not the government-run system some feared, or the status 
quo that serves the interests of the insurance industry, but a health care 
system that incorporates ideas from both parties -- a system that works 
better for the American people.

If you have health insurance, this reform just gave you more control by 
reining in the worst excesses and abuses of the insurance industry with 
some of the toughest consumer protections this country has ever known -- so 
that you are actually getting what you pay for.

If you don’t have insurance, this reform gives you a chance to be a part of 
a big purchasing pool that will give you choice and competition and cheaper 
prices for insurance. And it includes the largest health care tax cut for 
working families and small businesses in history -- so that if you lose 
your job and you change jobs, start that new business, you’ll finally be 
able to purchase quality, affordable care and the security and peace of 
mind that comes with it.

This reform is the right thing to do for our seniors. It makes Medicare 
stronger and more solvent, extending its life by almost a decade. And it’s 
the right thing to do for our future. It will reduce our deficit by more 
than $100 billion over the next decade, and more than $1 trillion in the 
decade after that.

So this isn’t radical reform. But it is major reform. This legislation will 
not fix everything that ails our health care system. But it moves us 
decisively in the right direction. This is what change looks like.

Now as momentous as this day is, it's not the end of this journey. On 
Tuesday, the Senate will take up revisions to this legislation that the 
House has embraced, and these are revisions that have strengthened this law 
and removed provisions that had no place in it. Some have predicted another 
siege of parliamentary maneuvering in order to delay adoption of these 
improvements. I hope that’s not the case. It’s time to bring this debate to 
a close and begin the hard work of implementing this reform properly on 
behalf of the American people. This year, and in years to come, we have a 
solemn responsibility to do it right.

Nor does this day represent the end of the work that faces our country. The 
work of revitalizing our economy goes on. The work of promoting private 
sector job creation goes on. The work of putting American families’ dreams 
back within reach goes on. And we march on, with renewed confidence, 
energized by this victory on their behalf.

In the end, what this day represents is another stone firmly laid in the 
foundation of the American Dream. Tonight, we answered the call of history 
as so many generations of Americans have before us. When faced with crisis, 
we did not shrink from our challenge -- we overcame it. We did not avoid 
our responsibility -- we embraced it. We did not fear our future -- we 
shaped it.

Thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.