 

 

Barack Obama

Martin Luther King, Jr. Remembrance Speech

delivered 17 January 2010, Vermont Avenue Baptist Church, Washington, DC

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

Good morning.  Praise be to God.  Let me begin by thanking the entire 
Vermont Avenue Baptist Church family for welcoming our family here today.  
It feels like a family.  Thank you for making us feel that way.  To Pastor 
Wheeler, first lady Wheeler, thank you so much for welcoming us here today. 
 Congratulations on Jordan Denice -- aka Cornelia. 

Michelle and I have been blessed with a new nephew this year as well -- 
Austin Lucas Robinson.  So maybe at the appropriate time we can make 
introductions. Now, if Jordan's father is like me, then that will be in 
about 30 years. That is a great blessing.

Michelle and Malia and Sasha and I are thrilled to be here today.  And I 
know that sometimes you have to go through a little fuss to have me as a 
guest speaker. So let me apologize in advance for all the fuss.

We gather here, on a Sabbath, during a time of profound difficulty for our 
nation and for our world.  In such a time, it soothes the soul to seek out 
the Divine in a spirit of prayer; to seek solace among a community of 
believers.  But we are not here just to ask the Lord for His blessing.  We 
aren't here just to interpret His Scripture.  We're also here to call on 
the memory of one of His noble servants, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr.

Now, it's fitting that we do so here, within the four walls of Vermont 
Avenue Baptist Church -- here, in a church that rose like the phoenix from 
the ashes of the civil war; here in a church formed by freed slaves, whose 
founding pastor had worn the union blue; here in a church from whose pews 
congregants set out for marches and from whom choir anthems of freedom were 
heard; from whose sanctuary King himself would sermonize from time to time.

One of those times was Thursday, December 6, 1956.  Pastor, you said you 
were a little older than me, so were you around at that point? You were 
three years old -- okay. I wasn’t born yet.
 
On Thursday, December 6, 1956.  And before Dr. King had pointed us to the 
mountaintop, before he told us about his dream in front of the Lincoln 
Memorial, King came here, as a 27-year-old preacher, to speak on what he 
called "The Challenge of a New Age."  "The Challenge of a New Age."  It was 
a period of triumph, but also uncertainty, for Dr. King and his followers 
-- because just weeks earlier, the Supreme Court had ordered the 
desegregation of Montgomery's buses, a hard-wrought, hard-fought victory 
that would put an end to the 381-day historic boycott down in Montgomery, 
Alabama.

And yet, as Dr. King rose to take that pulpit, the future still seemed 
daunting.  It wasn't clear what would come next for the movement that Dr. 
King led.  It wasn't clear how we were going to reach the Promised Land.  
Because segregation was still rife; lynchings still a fact.  Yes, the 
Supreme Court had ruled not only on the Montgomery buses, but also on Brown 
v. Board of Education.  And yet that ruling was defied throughout the South 
-- by schools and by states; they ignored it with impunity.  And here in 
the nation's capital, the federal government had yet to fully align itself 
with the laws on its books and the ideals of its founding. 

So it's not hard for us, then, to imagine that moment.  We can imagine 
folks coming to this church, happy about the boycott being over.  We can 
also imagine them, though, coming here concerned about their future, 
sometimes second-guessing strategy, maybe fighting off some creeping 
doubts, perhaps despairing about whether the movement in which they had 
placed so many of their hopes -- a movement in which they believed so 
deeply -- could actually deliver on its promise.

So here we are, more than half a century later, once again facing the 
challenges of a new age.  Here we are, once more marching toward an unknown 
future, what I call the Joshua generation to their Moses generation -- the 
great inheritors of progress paid for with sweat and blood, and sometimes 
life itself. 

We've inherited the progress of unjust laws that are now overturned.  We 
take for granted the progress of a ballot being available to anybody who 
wants to take the time to actually vote. We enjoy the fruits of prejudice 
and bigotry being lifted -- slowly, sometimes in fits and starts, but 
irrevocably -- from human hearts.  It's that progress that made it possible 
for me to be here today; for the good people of this country to elect an 
African American the 44th President of the United States of America.   

Reverend Wheeler mentioned the inauguration, last year's election.  You 
know, on the heels of that victory over a year ago, there were some who 
suggested that somehow we had entered into a post-racial America, all those 
problems would be solved.  There were those who argued that because I had 
spoke of a need for unity in this country that our nation was somehow 
entering into a period of post-partisanship.  That didn’t work out so well. 
 There was a hope shared by many that life would be better from the moment 
that I swore that oath.

Of course, as we meet here today, one year later, we know the promise of 
that moment has not yet been fully fulfilled.  Because of an era of greed 
and irresponsibility that sowed the seeds of its own demise, because of 
persistent economic troubles unaddressed through the generations, because 
of a banking crisis that brought the financial system to the brink of 
catastrophe, we are being tested -- in our own lives and as a nation -- as 
few have been tested before.

Unemployment is at its highest level in more than a quarter of a century.  
Nowhere is it higher than the African American community.  Poverty is on 
the rise.  Home ownership is slipping. Beyond our shores, our sons and 
daughters are fighting two wars. Closer to home, our Haitian brothers and 
sisters are in desperate need.  Bruised, battered, many people are 
legitimately feeling doubt, even despair, about the future.  Like those who 
came to this church on that Thursday in 1956, folks are wondering, where do 
we go from here?

I understand those feelings.  I understand the frustration and sometimes 
anger that so many folks feel as they struggle to stay afloat.  I get 
letters from folks around the country every day; I read 10 a night out of 
the 40,000 that we receive.  And there are stories of hardship and 
desperation, in some cases, pleading for help:  I need a job.  I'm about to 
lose my home.  I don't have health care -- it's about to cause my family to 
be bankrupt.  Sometimes you get letters from children:  My mama or my daddy 
have lost their jobs, is there something you can do to help?  Ten letters 
like that a day we read.

So, yes, we're passing through a hard winter.  It's the hardest in some 
time.  But let's always remember that, as a people, the American people, 
we've weathered some hard winters before.  This country was founded during 
some harsh winters.  The fishermen, the laborers, the craftsmen who made 
camp at Valley Forge -- they weathered a hard winter.  The slaves and the 
freedmen who rode an underground railroad, seeking the light of justice 
under the cover of night -- they weathered a hard winter. The seamstress 
whose feet were tired, the pastor whose voice echoes through the ages -- 
they weathered some hard winters.  It was for them, as it is for us, 
difficult, in the dead of winter, to sometimes see spring coming.  They, 
too, sometimes felt their hopes deflate.  And yet, each season, the frost 
melts, the cold recedes, the sun reappears.  So it was for earlier 
generations and so it will be for us.

What we need to do is to just ask what lessons we can learn from those 
earlier generations about how they sustained themselves during those hard 
winters, how they persevered and prevailed.  Let us in this Joshua 
generation learn how that Moses generation overcame. 

Let me offer a few thoughts on this.  First and foremost, they did so by 
remaining firm in their resolve.  Despite being threatened by sniper fire 
or planted bombs, by shoving and punching and spitting and angry stares, 
they adhered to that sweet spirit of resistance, the principles of 
nonviolence that had accounted for their success.

Second, they understood that as much as our government and our political 
parties had betrayed them in the past -- as much as our nation itself had 
betrayed its own ideals -- government, if aligned with the interests of its 
people, can be -- and must be  -- a force for good.  So they stayed on the 
Justice Department.  They went into the courts.  They pressured Congress, 
they pressured their President.  They didn’t give up on this country. They 
didn’t give up on government.  They didn’t somehow say government was the 
problem; they said, we're going to change government, we're going to make 
it better.  Imperfect as it was, they continued to believe in the promise 
of democracy; in America's constant ability to remake itself, to perfect 
this union.

Third, our predecessors were never so consumed with theoretical debates 
that they couldn't see progress when it came. Sometimes I get a little 
frustrated when folks just don't want to see that even if we don't get 
everything, we're getting something. King understood that the desegregation 
of the Armed Forces didn’t end the civil rights movement, because black and 
white soldiers still couldn't sit together at the same lunch counter when 
they came home.  But he still insisted on the rightness of desegregating 
the Armed Forces.  That was a good first step -- even as he called for 
more.  He didn’t suggest that somehow by the signing of the Civil Rights 
that somehow all discrimination would end.  But he also didn’t think that 
we shouldn’t sign the Civil Rights Act because it hasn’t solved every 
problem.  Let's take a victory, he said, and then keep on marching.  
Forward steps, large and small, were recognized for what they were -- which 
was progress.

Fourth, at the core of King's success was an appeal to conscience that 
touched hearts and opened minds, a commitment to universal ideals -- of 
freedom, of justice, of equality -- that spoke to all people, not just some 
people.  For King understood that without broad support, any movement for 
civil rights could not be sustained.  That's why he marched with the white 
auto worker in Detroit.  That's why he linked arm with the Mexican farm 
worker in California, and united people of all colors in the noble quest 
for freedom.

Of course, King overcame in other ways as well.  He remained strategically 
focused on gaining ground -- his eyes on the prize constantly -- 
understanding that change would not be easy, understand that change 
wouldn't come overnight, understanding that there would be setbacks and 
false starts along the way, but understanding, as he said in 1956, that "we 
can walk and never get weary, because we know there is a great camp meeting 
in the promised land of freedom and justice."

And it's because the Moses generation overcame that the trials we face 
today are very different from the ones that tested us in previous 
generations.  Even after the worst recession in generations, life in 
America is not even close to being as brutal as it was back then for so 
many.  That's the legacy of Dr. King and his movement.  That's our 
inheritance.  Having said that, let there be no doubt the challenges of our 
new age are serious in their own right, and we must face them as squarely 
as they faced the challenges they saw.

I know it's been a hard road we've traveled this year to rescue the 
economy, but the economy is growing again.  The job losses have finally 
slowed, and around the country, there's signs that businesses and families 
are beginning to rebound.  We are making progress.

I know it's been a hard road that we've traveled to reach this point on 
health reform.  I promise you I know.  But under the legislation I will 
sign into law, insurance companies won't be able to drop you when you get 
sick, and more than 30 million people -- our fellow Americans will finally 
have insurance.  More than 30 million men and women and children, mothers 
and fathers, won't be worried about what might happen to them if they get 
sick.  This will be a victory not for Democrats; this will be a victory for 
dignity and decency, for our common humanity.  This will be a victory for 
the United States of America.

Let's work to change the political system, as imperfect as it is.  I know 
people can feel down about the way things are going sometimes here in 
Washington.  I know it's tempting to give up on the political process.  But 
we've put in place tougher rules on lobbying and ethics and transparency -- 
tougher rules than any administration in history.  It's not enough, but 
it's progress.  Progress is possible.  Don't give up on voting.  Don't give 
up on advocacy.  Don't give up on activism.  There are too many needs to be 
met, too much work to be done.  Like Dr. King said, "We must accept finite 
disappointment but never lose infinite hope."

Let us broaden our coalition, building a confederation not of liberals or 
conservatives, not of red states or blue states, but of all Americans who 
are hurting today, and searching for a better tomorrow.  The urgency of the 
hour demands that we make common cause with all of America's workers -- 
white, black, brown -- all of whom are being hammered by this recession, 
all of whom are yearning for that spring to come.  It demands that we reach 
out to those who've been left out in the cold even when the economy is 
good, even when we're not in recession -- the youth in the inner cities, 
the youth here in Washington, D.C., people in rural communities who haven't 
seen prosperity reach them for a very long time.  It demands that we fight 
discrimination, whatever form it may come.  That means we fight 
discrimination  against gays and lesbians, and we make common cause to 
reform our immigration system.

And finally, we have to recognize, as Dr. King did, that progress can't 
just come from without -- it also has to come from within.  And over the 
past year, for example, we've made meaningful improvements in the field of 
education.  I've got a terrific Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan.  He's 
been working hard with states and working hard with the D.C. school 
district, and we've insisted on reform, and we've insisted on 
accountability.  We we're putting in more money and we've provided more 
Pell Grants and more tuition tax credits and simpler financial aid forms.  
We've done all that, but parents still need to parent.  Kids still need to 
own up to their responsibilities.  We still have to set high expectations 
for our young people.  Folks can't simply look to government for all the 
answers without also looking inside themselves, inside their own homes, for 
some of the answers.

Progress will only come if we're willing to promote that ethic of hard 
work, a sense of responsibility, in our own lives. I'm not talking, by the 
way, just to the African American community.  Sometimes when I say these 
things people assme, well, he's just talking to black people about working 
hard.  No, no, no, no.  I'm talking to the American community.  Because 
somewhere along the way, we, as a nation, began to lose touch with some of 
our core values.  You know what I'm talking about.  We became enraptured 
with the false prophets who prophesized an easy path to success, paved with 
credit cards and home equity loans and get-rich-quick schemes, and the most 
important thing was to be a celebrity; it doesn’t matter what you do, as 
long as you get on TV.  That's everybody.

We forgot what made the bus boycott a success; what made the civil rights 
movement a success; what made the United States of America a success -- 
that, in this country, there's no substitute for hard work, no substitute 
for a job well done, no substitute for being responsible stewards of God's 
blessings.

What we're called to do, then, is rebuild America from its foundation on 
up.  To reinvest in the essentials that we've neglected for too long -- 
like health care, like education, like a better energy policy, like basic 
infrastructure, like scientific research.  Our generation is called to 
buckle down and get back to basics.

We must do so not only for ourselves, but also for our children, and their 
children.  For Jordan and for Austin.  That's a sacrifice that falls on us 
to make.  It's a much smaller sacrifice than the Moses generation had to 
make, but it's still a sacrifice.  

Yes, it's hard to transition to a clean energy economy.  Sometimes it may 
be inconvenient, but it's a sacrifice that we have to make.  It's hard to 
be fiscally responsible when we have all these human needs, and we're 
inheriting enormous deficits and debt, but that's a sacrifice that we're 
going to have to make.  You know, it's easy, after a hard day's work, to 
just put your kid in front of the TV set -- you're tired, don't want to 
fuss with them -- instead of reading to them, but that's a sacrifice we 
must joyfully accept. 

Sometimes it's hard to be a good father and good mother. Sometimes it's 
hard to be a good neighbor, or a good citizen, to give up time in service 
of others, to give something of ourselves to a cause that's greater than 
ourselves -- as Michelle and I are urging folks to do tomorrow to honor and 
celebrate Dr. King.  But these are sacrifices that we are called to make.  
These are sacrifices that our faith calls us to make.  Our faith in the 
future.  Our faith in America.  Our faith in God. 

And on his sermon all those years ago, Dr. King quoted a poet's verse:

Truth forever on the scaffold
Wrong forever on the throne…
And behind the dim unknown stands God
Within the shadows keeping watch above his own.

Even as Dr. King stood in this church, a victory in the past and 
uncertainty in the future, he trusted God.  He trusted that God would make 
a way.  A way for prayers to be answered.  A way for our union to be 
perfected.  A way for the arc of the moral universe, no matter how long, to 
slowly bend towards truth and bend towards freedom, to bend towards 
justice.  He had faith that God would make a way out of no way.

You know, folks ask me sometimes why I look so calm. They say, all this 
stuff coming at you, how come you just seem calm?  And I have a confession 
to make here.  There are times where I'm not so calm. Reggie Love knows.  
My wife knows.  There are times when progress seems too slow.  There are 
times when the words that are spoken about me hurt.  There are times when 
the barbs sting.  There are times when it feels like all these efforts are 
for naught, and change is so painfully slow in coming, and I have to 
confront my own doubts. 

But let me tell you -- during those times it's faith that keeps me calm. 
It's faith that gives me peace.  The same faith that leads a single mother 
to work two jobs to put a roof over her head when she has doubts.  The same 
faith that keeps an unemployed father to keep on submitting job 
applications even after he's been rejected a hundred times.  The same faith 
that says to a teacher even if the first nine children she's teaching she 
can't reach, that that 10th one she's going to be able to reach.  The same 
faith that breaks the silence of an earthquake's wake with the sound of 
prayers and hymns sung by a Haitian community.  A faith in things not seen, 
in better days ahead, in Him who holds the future in the hollow of His 
hand.  A faith that lets us mount up on wings like eagles; lets us run and 
not be weary; lets us walk and not faint.

So let us hold fast to that faith, as Joshua held fast to the faith of his 
fathers, and together, we shall overcome the challenges of a new age. 
Together, we shall seize the promise of this moment.  Together, we shall 
make a way through winter, and we're going to welcome the spring.  Through 
God all things are possible.

May the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King continue to inspire us and ennoble 
our world and all who inhabit it.  And may God bless the United States of 
America.

Thank you very much, everybody.  God bless you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.