 

 

Barack Obama

Speech to the People of Rio de Janeiro

delivered 20 March 2011, Teatro Municipal, Rio de Janeiro

Audio mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf   
 click for 
flash 

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

President Obama:  Hello, Rio de Janeiro!

Audience:  Hello!

Audience Member:  Many welcomes!

President Obama:  Alo!  Cidade!  Maravilhoso! Boa tarde, todo o povo 
brasileiro.

Since the moment we arrived, the people of this nation have graciously 
shown my family the warmth and generosity of the Brazilian spirit.  
Obrigado.  Thank you.  And I want to give a special thanks to all of you 
for being here, because I've been told that there’s a Vasco football game 
coming. Botafogo -- So I know that -- I realize Brazilians don’t give up 
their soccer very easily.

Now, one of my earliest impressions of Brazil was a movie I saw with my 
mother as a very young child, a movie called Black Orpheus, that is set in 
the favelas  of Rio during Carnival.  
And my mother loved that movie, with its singing and dancing against the 
backdrop of the beautiful green hills.  And it first premiered as a play 
right here in Teatro Municipal.  That's my understanding. 

And my mother is gone now, but she would have never imagined that her son’s 
first trip to Brazil would be as President of the United States.  She would 
have never imagined that. And I never imagined that this country would be 
even more beautiful than it was in the movie.  You are, as Jorge Ben-Jor 
sang, “A tropical country, blessed by God, and beautiful by nature.” 

I’ve seen that beauty in the cascading hillsides, in your endless miles of 
sand and ocean, and in the vibrant, diverse gatherings of brasileiros who 
have come here today. 

And we have a wonderfully mixed group.  We have Cariocas and Paulistas, 
Baianas, Mineiros. We’ve got men and women from the cities to the interior, 
and so many young people here who are the great future of this great 
nation.   

Now, yesterday, I met with your wonderful new President, Dilma Rousseff
 , and talked about how we can 
strengthen the partnership between our governments.  But today, I want to 
speak directly to the Brazilian people about how we can strengthen the 
friendship between our nations.  I’ve come here to share some ideas because 
I want to speak of the values that we share, the hopes that we have in 
common, and the difference that we can make together. 

When you think about it, the journeys of the United States of America and 
Brazil began in similar ways.  Our lands are rich with God’s creation, home 
to ancient and indigenous peoples.  From overseas, the Americas were 
discovered by men who sought a New World, and settled by pioneers who 
pushed westward, across vast frontiers.  We became colonies claimed by 
distant crowns, but soon declared our independence.  We then welcomed waves 
of immigrants to our shores, and eventually after a long struggle, we 
cleansed the stain of slavery from our land.  

The United States was the first nation to recognize Brazil’s independence, 
and set up a diplomatic outpost in this country.  The first head of state 
to visit the United States was the leader of Brazil, Dom Pedro II.  In the 
Second World War, our brave men and women fought side-by-side for freedom.  
And after the war, both of our nations struggled to achieve the full 
blessings of liberty. 

On the streets of the United States, men and women marched and bled and 
some died so that every citizen could enjoy the same freedoms and 
opportunities -- no matter what you looked like, no matter where you came 
from.

In Brazil, you fought against two decades of dictatorships for the same 
right to be heard -– the right to be free from fear, free from want.  And 
yet, for years, democracy and development were slow to take hold, and 
millions suffered as a result. 

But I come here today because those days have passed.  Brazil today is a 
flourishing democracy -- a place where people are free to speak their mind 
and choose their leaders; where a poor kid from Pernambuco
 can rise from the floors of a 
copper factory to the highest office in Brazil. 

Over the last decade, the progress made by the Brazilian people has 
inspired the world.  More than half of this nation is now considered middle 
class.  Millions have been lifted from poverty.  For the first time, hope 
is returning to places where fear had long prevailed.  I saw this today 
when I visited Cidade de Deus -- the City of God
 .

It isn’t just the new security efforts and social programs  -- and I want 
to congratulate the mayor and the governor for the excellent work that 
they’re doing. But it’s also a change in attitudes.  As one young resident 
said, “People have to look at favelas not with pity, but as a source of 
presidents and lawyers and doctors, artists, [and] people with solutions.”

With each passing day, Brazil is a country with more solutions.  In the 
global community, you’ve gone from relying on the help of other nations, to 
now helping fight poverty and disease wherever they exist.  You play an 
important role in the global institutions that protect our common security 
and promote our common prosperity.  And you will welcome the world to your 
shores when the World Cup and the Olympic games come to Rio de Janeiro.

 Now, you may be aware that this city was not my first choice for the 
Summer Olympics.  But if the games could not be held in Chicago, then 
there’s no place I’d rather see them than right here in Rio.  And I intend 
to come back in 2016 to watch what happens.

For so long, Brazil was a nation brimming with potential but held back by 
politics, both at home and abroad.  For so long, you were called a country 
of the future, told to wait for a better day that was always just around 
the corner.

Meus amigos, that day has finally come.  And this is a country of the 
future no more.  The people of Brazil should know that the future has 
arrived.  It is here now.  And it’s time to seize it.

Now, our countries have not always agreed on everything.  And just like 
many nations, we’re going to have our differences of opinion going forward. 
 But I’m here to tell you that the American people don’t just recognize 
Brazil’s success -- we root for Brazil’s success.  As you confront the many 
challenges you still face at home as well as abroad, let us stand together 
-- not as senior and junior partners, but as equal partners, joined in a 
spirit of mutual interest and mutual respect, committed to the progress 
that I know that we can make together.  I'm confident we can do it.

Together we can advance our common prosperity.  As two of the world’s 
largest economies, we worked side by side during the financial crisis to 
restore growth and confidence.  And to keep our economies growing, we know 
what’s necessary in both of our nations.  We need a skilled, educated 
workforce -- which is why American and Brazilian companies have pledged to 
help increase student exchanges between our two nations. 

We need a commitment to innovation and technology -- which is why we've 
agreed to expand cooperation between our scientists, researchers, and 
engineers.

We need world-class infrastructure -- which is why American companies want 
to help you build and prepare this city for Olympic success.

In a global economy, the United States and Brazil should expand trade, 
expand investment, so that we create new jobs and new opportunities in both 
of our nations.  And that's why we're working to break down barriers to 
doing business.  That's why we're building closer relationships between our 
workers and our entrepreneurs.     

Together we can also promote energy security and protect our beautiful 
planet.  As two nations that are committed to greener economies, we know 
that the ultimate solution to our energy challenges lies in clean and 
renewable power.  And that’s why half the vehicles in this country can run 
on biofuels, and most of your electricity comes from hydropower.  That’s 
also why, in the United States, we’ve jumpstarted a new clean energy 
industry. And that’s why the United States and Brazil are creating new 
energy partnerships -- to share technologies, create new jobs, and leave 
our children a world that is cleaner and safer than we found it.

Together, our two nations can also help defend our citizens’ security.  
We’re working together to stop narco-trafficking that has destroyed too 
many lives in this hemisphere.  We seek the goal of a world without nuclear 
weapons.  We’re working together to enhance nuclear security across our 
hemisphere.  From Africa to Haiti, we are working side by side to combat 
the hunger, disease, and corruption that can rot a society and rob human 
beings of dignity and opportunity. And as two countries that have been 
greatly enriched by our African heritage, it’s absolutely vital that we are 
working with the continent of Africa to help lift it up.  That is something 
that we should be committed to doing together.

Today, we’re both also delivering assistance and support to the Japanese 
people at their greatest hour of need.  The ties that bind our nations to 
Japan are strong.  In Brazil, you are home to the largest Japanese 
population outside of Japan.  In the United States, we forged an alliance 
of more than 60 years.  The people of Japan are some of our closest 
friends, and we will pray with them, and stand with them, and rebuild with 
them until this crisis has passed.

In these and other efforts to promote peace and prosperity throughout the 
world, the United States and Brazil are partners not just because we share 
history, not just because we’re in the same hemisphere; not just because we 
share ties of commerce and culture, but also because we share certain 
enduring values and ideals. 

We both believe in the power and promise of democracy.  We believe that no 
other form of government is more effective at promoting growth and 
prosperity that reaches every human being -- not just some but all.  And 
those who argue otherwise, those who argue that democracy stands in the way 
of economic progress, they must contend with the example of Brazil. 

The millions in this country who have climbed from poverty into the middle 
class, they could not do so in a closed economy controlled by the state.  
You’re prospering as a free people with open markets and a government that 
answers to its citizens.  You’re proving that the goal of social justice 
and social inclusion can be best achieved through freedom -– that democracy 
is the greatest partner of human progress.

We also believe that in nations as big and diverse as ours, shaped by 
generations of immigrants from every race and faith and background, 
democracy offers the best hope that every citizen is treated with dignity 
and respect, and that we can resolve our differences peacefully, that we 
find strength in our diversity. 

We know that experience in the United States.  We know how important it is 
to be able to work together -- even when we often disagree.  I understand 
that our chosen form of government can be slow and messy.  We understand 
that democracy must be constantly strengthened and perfected over time.  We 
know that different nations take different paths to realize the promise of 
democracy. And we understand that no one nation should impose its will on 
another. 

But we also know that there’s certain aspirations shared by every human 
being:  We all seek to be free.  We all seek to be heard.  We all yearn to 
live without fear or discrimination.  We all yearn to choose how we are 
governed.  And we all want to shape our own destiny.  These are not 
American ideals or Brazilian ideals.  These are not Western ideals.  These 
are universal rights, and we must support them everywhere.

Today, we are seeing the struggle for these rights unfold across the Middle 
East and North Africa.  We’ve seen a revolution born out of a yearning for 
basic human dignity in Tunisia.  We’ve seen peaceful protestors pour into 
Tahrir Square -- men and women, young and old, Christian and Muslim.  We’ve 
seen the people of Libya take a courageous stand against a regime 
determined to brutalize its own citizens.  Across the region, we’ve seen 
young people rise up -- a new generation demanding the right to determine 
their own future. 

From the beginning, we have made clear that the change they seek must be 
driven by their own people.  But for our two nations, for the United States 
and Brazil, two nations who have struggled over many generations to perfect 
our own democracies, the United States and Brazil know that the future of 
the Arab World will be determined by its people.

No one can say for certain how this change will end, but I do know that 
change is not something that we should fear.  When young people insist that 
the currents of history are on the move, the burdens of the past can be 
washed away.  When men and women peacefully claim their human rights, our 
own common humanity is enhanced.  Wherever the light of freedom is lit, the 
world becomes a brighter place.

That is the example of Brazil.  That is the example of Brazil. Brazil -- a 
country that shows that a dictatorship can become a thriving democracy.  
Brazil -- a country that shows democracy delivers both freedom and 
opportunity to its people.  Brazil -- a country that shows how a call for 
change that starts in the streets can transform a city, transform a 
country, transform a world.

Decades ago, it was directly outside of this theater, in Cinelandia Square, 
where the call for change was heard in Brazil. Students and artists and 
political leaders of all stripes would gather with banners that said, “Down 
with the dictatorship.  The people in power.”  Their democratic aspirations 
would not be fulfilled until years later, but one of the young Brazilians 
in that generation’s movement would go on to forever change the history of 
this country. 

A child of an immigrant, her participation in the movement led to her 
arrest and her imprisonment, her torture at the hands of her own 
government.  And so she knows what it’s like to live without the most basic 
human rights that so many are fighting for today.  But she also knows what 
it is to persevere.  She knows what it is to overcome -- because today that 
woman is your nation’s president, Dilma Rousseff.

Our two nations face many challenges.  On the road ahead, we will certainly 
encounter many obstacles.  But in the end, it is our history that gives us 
hope for a better tomorrow.  It is the knowledge that the men and women who 
came before us have triumphed over greater trials than these -- that we 
live in places where ordinary people have done extraordinary things. 

It’s that sense of possibility, that sense of optimism that first drew 
pioneers to this New World.  It’s what binds our nations together as 
partners in this new century.  It’s why we believe, in the words of Paul 
Coelho, one of your most famous writers, “With the strength of our love and 
our will, we can change our destiny, as well as the destiny of many 
others.”

Muito obrigado.  Thank you.  And may God bless our two nations.  Thank you 
very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Jackson) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.