 

 

Barack Obama

Address to the American Legion Conference

delivered 30 August 2011, Minneapolis Convention Center, MN

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Hello Legionnaires! It is wonderful to see all of you. Let me, first of 
all, thank Commander Foster for your introduction and for your lifetime of 
service to your fellow Marines, soldiers and veterans. On behalf of us all, 
I want to thank Jimmie and I want to thank your entire leadership team for 
welcoming me here today. Thank you very much.

Your National Adjutant, Dan Wheeler; your Executive Director, your voice in 
Washington, Peter Gaytan, who does just an extraordinary job; and the 
President of the American Legion Auxiliary, Carlene Ashworth -- thank you 
for your extraordinary service. To Rehta Foster and all the spouses, 
daughters and sisters of the Auxiliary, and the Sons of the American Legion 
-- as military families, you also serve, and we salute all of you as well.

There are some special guests here I want to acknowledge. They may have 
already been acknowledged, but they're great friends so I want to make sure 
that I point them out. First of all, the wonderful governor of Minnesota, 
Mark Dayton, is here. Two senators who are working on behalf of veterans 
every single day -- Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken. Congressman Keith Ellison 
-- this is his district. Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak, a great friend. To 
all the other members of Congress and Minnesota elected officials who are 
here, welcome.

It is wonderful to be back with the American Legion. Back in Illinois, my 
home state -- Hey! Illinois is in the house. We worked together to make 
sure veterans across the state were getting the benefits they had earned. 
When I was in the U.S. Senate, we worked together to spotlight the tragedy 
of homelessness among veterans -- and the need to end it.

As President, I’ve welcomed Jimmie and your leadership to the Oval Office 
to hear directly from you. And I have been -- I've been honored to have you 
by my side when I signed advance appropriations to protect veterans' health 
care from the budget battles in Washington, -- when I signed legislation to 
give new support to veterans and their caregivers, and, most recently, when 
I proposed new initiatives to make sure the private sector is hiring our 
talented veterans.

So, American Legion, I thank you for your partnership. I appreciate the 
opportunity to talk with you today about what we need to do to make sure 
America is taking care of our veterans as well as you’ve taken care of us.

And I’m grateful to be with you for another reason. A lot of our fellow 
citizens are still reeling from Hurricane Irene and its aftermath. Folks 
are surveying the damage. Some are dealing with tremendous flooding. As a 
government, we’re going to make sure that states and communities have the 
support they need so their folks can recover.

And across the nation, we’re still digging out from the worst economic 
crisis since the Great Depression. It’s taking longer and it's been more 
difficult than any of us had imagined. And even though we’ve taken some 
steps in the right direction, we've got a lot more to do. Our economy has 
to grow faster. We have to create more jobs, and we have to do it faster. 
And most of all, we've got to break the gridlock in Washington that’s been 
preventing us from taking the action we need to get this country moving. 
That’s why, next week, I’ll be speaking to the nation about a plan to 
create jobs and reduce our deficit -- a plan that I want to see passed by 
Congress. We've got to get this done.

And here’s what else I know. We Americans have been through tough times 
before, much tougher than these. And we didn’t just get through them; we 
emerged stronger than before. Not by luck. Not by chance. But because, in 
hard times, Americans don’t quit. We don’t give up. We summon that spirit 
that says, when we come together, when we choose to move forward together, 
as one people, there’s nothing we can’t achieve.

And, Legionnaires, you know this story because it's the story of your 
lives. And in times like these, all Americans can draw strength from your 
example. When Hitler controlled a continent and fascism appeared 
unstoppable, when our harbor was bombed and our Pacific fleet crippled, 
there were those that declared that the United States had been reduced to a 
third-class power. But you, our veterans of World War II, crossed the 
oceans and stormed the beaches and freed the millions, liberated the camps 
and showed the United States of America is the greatest force for freedom 
that the world has ever known.

When North Korea invaded the South, pushing the allied forces into a tiny 
sliver of territory -- the Pusan Perimeter -- it seemed like the war could 
be lost. But you, our Korean War veterans, pushed back, fought on, year 
after bloody year. And this past Veterans Day, I went to Seoul and joined 
our Korean War veterans for the 60th anniversary of that war, and we marked 
that milestone in a free and prosperous Republic of Korea, one of our 
greatest allies.

When communist forces in Vietnam unleashed the Tet Offensive, it fueled the 
debate here at home that raged over that war. You, our Vietnam veterans, 
did not always receive the respect that you deserved -- which was a 
national shame. But let it be remembered that you won every major battle of 
that war. Every single one. As President, I’ve been honored to welcome our 
Vietnam veterans to the White House and finally present them with the 
medals and recognition that they had earned. It’s been a chance to convey, 
on behalf of the American people, those simple words with which our Vietnam 
veterans greet each other -- “Welcome home.”

Legionnaires, in the decades that followed, the spirit of your service was 
carried forth by our troops in the sands of Desert Storm and the rugged 
hills of the Balkans. And now, it's carried on by a new generation. Next 
weekend, we'll mark the 10th anniversary of those awful attacks on our 
nation. In the days ahead, we will honor the lives we lost and the families 
that loved them; the first responders who rushed to save others; and we 
will honor all those who have served to keep us safe these 10 difficult 
years, especially the men and women of our Armed Forces.

Today, as we near this solemn anniversary, it’s fitting that we salute the 
extraordinary decade of service rendered by the 9/11 Generation -- the more 
than 5 million Americans who've worn the uniform over the past 10 years. 
They were there, on duty, that September morning, having enlisted in a time 
of peace, but they instantly transitioned to a war footing. They’re the 
millions of recruits who have stepped forward since, seeing their nation at 
war and saying, “Send me.” They’re every single soldier, sailor, airman, 
Marine and Coast Guardsman serving today, who has volunteered to serve in a 
time of war, knowing that they could be sent into harm’s way.

They come from every corner of our country, big cities, small towns. They 
come from every background and every creed. They’re sons and daughters who 
carry on the family’s tradition of service, and they're new immigrants 
who’ve become our newest citizens. They’re our National Guardsmen and 
Reservists who've served in unprecedented deployments. They’re the record 
number of women in our military, proving themselves in combat like never 
before. And every day for the past 10 years, these men and women have 
succeeded together -- as one American team.

They're a generation of innovators, and they’ve changed the way America 
fights and wins at wars. Raised in the age of the Internet, they’ve 
harnessed new technologies on the battlefield. They’ve learned the cultures 
and traditions and languages of the places where they served. Trained to 
fight, they’ve also taken on the role of diplomats and mayors and 
development experts, negotiating with tribal sheikhs, working with village 
shuras, partnering with communities. Young captains, sergeants, lieutenants 
-- they've assumed responsibilities once reserved for more senior 
commanders, and reminding us that in an era when so many other institutions 
have shirked their obligations, the men and women of the United States 
military welcome responsibility.

In a decade of war, they've borne an extraordinary burden, with more than 2 
million of our service members deploying to the warzones. Hundreds of 
thousands have deployed again and again, year after year. Never before has 
our nation asked so much of our all-volunteer force -- that one percent of 
Americans who wears the uniform.

We see the scope of their sacrifice in the tens of thousands who now carry 
the scars of war, both seen and unseen -- our remarkable wounded warriors. 
We see it in our extraordinary military families who serve here at home -- 
the military spouses who hold their families together; the millions of 
military children, many of whom have lived most of their young lives with 
our nation at war and mom or dad deployed.

Most profoundly, we see the wages of war in those patriots who never came 
home. They gave their all, their last full measure of devotion, in 
Kandahar, in the Korengal, in Helmand, in the battles for Baghdad and 
Fallujah and Ramadi. Now they lay at rest in quiet corners of America, but 
they live on in the families who loved them and in a nation that is safer 
because of their service. And today we pay humble tribute to the more than 
6,200 Americans in uniform who have given their lives in this hard decade 
of war. We honor them all. We are grateful for them.

Through their service, through their sacrifice, through their astonishing 
record of achievement, our forces have earned their place among the 
greatest of generations. Toppling the Taliban in just weeks. Driving al 
Qaeda from the training camps where they plotted 9/11. Giving the Afghan 
people the opportunity to live free from terror. When the decision was made 
to go into Iraq, our troops raced across deserts and removed a dictator in 
less than a month. When insurgents, militias and terrorists plunged Iraq 
into chaos, our troops adapted, they endured ferocious urban combat, they 
reduced the violence and gave Iraqis a chance to forge their own future.

When a resurgent Taliban threatened to give al Qaeda more space to plot 
against us, the additional forces I ordered to Afghanistan went on the 
offensive -- taking the fight to the Taliban and pushing them out of their 
safe havens, allowing Afghans to reclaim their communities and training 
Afghan forces. And a few months ago, our troops achieved our greatest 
victory yet in the fight against those who attacked us on 9/11 -- 
delivering justice to Osama bin Laden in one of the greatest intelligence 
and military operations in American history.

Credit for these successes, credit for this progress, belongs to all who 
have worn the uniform in these wars. Today we're honored to be joined by 
some of them. And I would ask all those who served this past decade -- the 
members of the 9/11 Generation -- to stand and accept the thanks of a 
grateful nation.

Thanks to these Americans, we’re moving forward from a position of 
strength. Having ended our combat mission in Iraq and removed more than 
100,000 troops so far, we’ll remove the rest of our troops by the end of 
this year and we will end that war.

Having put al Qaeda on the path to defeat, we won’t relent until the job is 
done. Having started to draw down our forces in Afghanistan, we’ll bring 
home 33,000 troops by next summer and bring home more troops in the coming 
years. As our mission transitions from combat to support, Afghans will take 
responsibility for their own security, and the longest war in American 
history will come to a responsible end.

For our troops and military families who've sacrificed so much, this means 
relief from an unrelenting decade of operations. Today, fewer of our sons 
and daughters are serving in harm’s way. For so many troops who’ve already 
done their duty, we’ve put an end to the stop loss. And our soldiers can 
now look forward to shorter deployments. That means more time at home 
between deployments, and more time training for the full range of missions 
that they will face.

Indeed, despite 10 years of continuous war, it must be said -- America’s 
military is the best that it’s ever been. We saw that most recently in the 
skill and precision of our brave forces who helped the Libyan people 
finally break free from the grip of Moammar Qaddafi. And as we meet the 
test that the future will surely bring, including hard fiscal choices here 
at home, there should be no doubt: The United States of America will keep 
our military the best-trained, the best-led, the best-equipped fighting 
force in history. It will continue to be the best.

Now, as today’s wars end, as our troops come home, we’re reminded once more 
of our responsibilities to all who have served. The bond between our forces 
and our citizens must be a sacred trust. And for me and my administration, 
upholding that trust is not just a matter of policy, it is not about 
politics; it is a moral obligation. That’s why my very first budget 
included the largest percentage increase to the VA budget in the past 30 
years. So far, we’re on track to have increased funding for Veterans 
Affairs by 30 percent. And because we passed advanced appropriations, when 
Washington politics threatens to shut down the government, as it did last 
spring, the veterans' medical care that you count on was safe.

And let me say something else about VA funding that you depend on. As a 
nation, we’re facing some tough choices as we put our fiscal house in 
order. But I want to be absolutely clear: We cannot, we must not, we will 
not, balance the budget on the backs of our veterans. As 
Commander-in-Chief, I won’t allow it.

With these historic investments, we’re making dramatic improvements to 
veterans' health care. We’re improving VA facilities to better serve our 
women veterans. We’re expanding outreach and care for our rural veterans, 
like those that I met during my recent visit to Cannon Falls, including two 
proud Legionnaires -- Tom Newman of Legion Post 620 in Hugo, and Joseph 
Kidd, Post 164 in Stewartville. Are they here right now? They're out there 
somewhere. That was a good lunch, by the way.

For our Vietnam veterans, because we declared that three diseases are now 
presumed to be related to your exposure to Agent Orange, we’ve begun paying 
the disability benefits that you need. For our veterans of the Gulf War, 
we’re moving forward to address the nine infectious diseases that we 
declared are now presumed to be related to your service in Desert Storm.

At the same time, our outstanding VA Secretary, Ric Shinseki, is working 
every day to build a 21st century VA. Many of our Vietnam vets are already 
submitting their Agent Orange claims electronically. Hundreds of you, from 
all wars, are requesting your benefits online. Thanks to the new “blue 
button” on the VA website, you can now share your personal health 
information with your doctors outside of the VA. And we’re making progress 
in sharing medical records between DOD and VA. We’re not there yet. I've 
been pounding on this thing since I came into office. We are going to stay 
on it, we're going to keep at it until our troops and our veterans have a 
lifetime electronic medical record that you can keep for your life.

Of course, we’ve still got some work to do. We got to break the backlog of 
disability claims. I know that over the past year, the backlog has actually 
grown due to new claims from Agent Orange. But let me say this -- and I 
know Secretary Shinseki agrees -- when our veterans who fought for our 
country have to fight just to get the benefits that you’ve already earned, 
that’s unacceptable. So this is going to remain a key priority for us.

We’re going to keep hiring new claims processors, and we’re going to keep 
investing in new paperless systems and keep moving ahead with our 
innovation competition in which our dedicated VA employees are developing 
new ways to process your claims faster. We want your claims to be processed 
not in months, but in days. So the bottom line is this -- your claims need 
to be processed quickly and accurately, the first time. We’re not going to 
rest until we get that done. We will not rest.

The same is true for our mission to end homelessness among our veterans. 
Already, we’ve helped to bring tens of thousands of veterans off the 
streets. For the first time ever, we’ve made veterans and military families 
a priority -- not just at the VA, not just at DOD, but across the federal 
government. And that includes making sure that federal agencies are working 
together so that every veteran who fought for America has a home in 
America.

We’re working to fulfill our obligations to our 9/11 Generation veterans, 
especially our wounded warriors. The constant threat of IEDs has meant a 
new generation of service members with multiple traumatic injuries, 
including Traumatic Brain Injury. And thanks to advanced armor and medical 
technologies, our troops are surviving injuries that would have been fatal 
in previous wars. So we’re saving more lives, but more American veterans 
live with severe wounds for a lifetime. That's why we need to be for them 
for their lifetime.

We’re giving unprecedented support to our wounded warriors -- especially 
those with Traumatic Brain Injury. And thanks to the veterans and 
caregivers legislation I signed into law, we’ve started training caregivers 
so that they can receive the skills and the stipends that they need to care 
for their loved ones.

We’re working aggressively to address another signature wound of this war, 
which has led to too many fine troops and veterans to take their own lives, 
and that’s Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. We’re continuing to make major 
investments -- improving outreach and suicide prevention, hiring and 
training more mental health counselors, and treating more veterans than 
ever before.

The days when depression and PTSD were stigmatized -- those days must end. 
That’s why I made the decision to start sending condolence letters to the 
families of service members who take their lives while deployed in a combat 
zone. These Americans did not die because they were weak. They were 
warriors. They deserve our respect. Every man and woman in uniform, every 
veteran, needs to know that your nation will be there to help you stay 
strong. It’s the right thing to do.

In recent months, we’ve heard new reports of some of our veterans not 
getting the prompt mental health care that they desperately need. And that, 
too, is unacceptable. If a veteran has the courage to seek help, then we 
need to be doing everything in our power to deliver the lifesaving mental 
care that they need. So Secretary Shinseki and the VA are going to stay on 
this. And we'll continue to make it easier for veterans with Post-Traumatic 
Stress to qualify for VA benefits, regardless of the war that you served 
in. If you served in a combat theater and a VA doctor confirms a diagnosis 
of PTSD, that's enough.

Which brings me to the final area where America must meet its obligations 
to our veterans, and this is a place where we need each other -- and that’s 
the task of renewing our nation’s economic strength. After a decade of war, 
it’s time to focus on nation building here at home. And our veterans, 
especially our 9/11 veterans, have the skills and the dedication to help 
lead the way.

That’s why we’re funding the post-9/11 G.I. Bill, which is now helping more 
than 500,000 veterans and family members go to college, get their degrees, 
and play their part in moving America forward. It’s why, this fall, we’ll 
start including vocational training and apprenticeships as well, so 
veterans can develop the skills to succeed in today’s economy. And that’s 
why I’ve directed the federal government to hire more veterans, including 
more than 100,000 veterans in the past year and a half alone.

But in this tough economy, far too many of our veterans are still 
unemployed. That’s why I’ve proposed a comprehensive initiative to make 
sure we’re tapping the incredible talents of our veterans. And it’s got two 
main parts.

First, we’re going to do more to help our newest veterans find and get that 
private sector job. We’re going to offer -- we’re going to offer more help 
with career development and job searches. I’ve directed DOD and the VA to 
create what we’re calling a “reverse boot camp” to help our newest veterans 
prepare for civilian jobs and translate their exceptional military skills 
into industry -- into industry-accepted licenses and credentials. And today 
I’m calling on every state to pass legislation that makes it easier for our 
veterans to get the credentials and the jobs for which they are so clearly 
qualified. This needs to happen, and it needs to happen now.

Second, we’re encouraging the private sector to do its part. So I’ve 
challenged companies across America to hire or train 100,000 unemployed 
veterans or their spouses. And this builds on the commitments that many 
companies have already made as part of the Joining Forces Campaign, 
championed by the First Lady and the Vice President’s spouse, Dr. Jill 
Biden: 100,000 jobs for veterans and spouses. And to get this done, I’ve 
proposed a Returning Heroes Tax Credit for companies that hire unemployed 
veterans and a Wounded Warrior Tax Credit for companies that hire 
unemployed veterans with a disability.

When Congress returns from recess, this needs to be at the top of their 
agenda. For the sake of our veterans, for the sake of our economy, we need 
these veterans working and contributing and creating the new jobs and 
industries that will keep America competitive in the 21st century.

These are the obligations we have to each other -- our forces, our 
veterans, our citizens. These are the responsibilities we must fulfill. Not 
just when it’s easy, not just when we’re flush with cash, not just when 
it’s convenient, but always.

That’s a lesson we learned again this year in the life and in the passing 
of Frank Buckles, our last veteran from the First World War. He passed away 
at the age of 110. Think about it. Frank lived the American Century. An 
ambulance driver on the Western Front, he bore witness to the carnage of 
the trenches in Europe. Then during the Second World War, he survived more 
than three years in Japanese prisoner of war camps. Then, like so many 
veterans, he came home, went to school, pursued a career, started a family, 
lived a good life on his farm in West Virginia.

Even in his later years, after turning 100, Frank Buckles still gave back 
to his country. He’d go speak to schoolchildren about his extraordinary 
life. He’d meet and inspire other veterans. And for 80 years, he served as 
a proud member of the American Legion.

The day he was laid to rest, I ordered the flags be flown at half-staff at 
the White House, at the government buildings across the nation, at our 
embassies around the world. As Frank Buckles lay in honor at Arlington’s 
memorial chapel, hundreds passed by his flag-draped casket in quiet 
procession. Most were strangers who never knew him, but they knew the story 
of his service, and they felt compelled to offer their thanks to this 
American soldier.

And that afternoon, I had the privilege of going over to Arlington and 
spending a few moments with Frank’s daughter, Susannah, who cared for her 
father to the very end. And it was a chance for me to convey the gratitude 
of an entire nation and to pay my respects to an American who reflected the 
best of who we are as a people.

And, Legionnaires, it was a reminder -- not just to the family and friends 
of Corporal Frank Buckles, but to the veterans and families of every 
generation -- no matter when you serve, no matter how many years ago that 
you took off the uniform, no matter how long you live as a proud veteran of 
this country we love, America will never leave your side. America will 
never forget. We will always be grateful to you.

God bless you. God bless all our veterans. And God bless the United States 
of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text and Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.