 

 

Barack Obama

Weekly Address Honoring Iraq War Troops & Veterans

delivered 17 December 2011, The White House, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

This week marked a historic moment in the life of our country and our 
military.

For nearly nine years, our nation has been at war in Iraq. More than 1.5 
million Americans have served there with honor, skill, and bravery. Tens of 
thousands have been wounded. Military families have sacrificed greatly -- 
none more so than the families of those nearly 4,500 Americans who made the 
ultimate sacrifice. All of them – our troops, veterans, and their families 
-- will always have the thanks of a grateful nation.


 
On Thursday, the colors our Armed Forces fought under in Iraq were formally 
cased in a ceremony in Baghdad before beginning their journey back home. 
Our troops are now preparing to make their final march across the border 
and out of the country. Iraq’s future will be in the hands of its own 
people.  Our war there will be over. All of our troops will be out of Iraq. 
 And this holiday season, all of us can finally say: Welcome home.
 
This is an extraordinary achievement -- one made possible by the hard work 
and sacrifice of the men and women who had the courage to serve.  And 
there’s a lesson to learn from that -- a lesson about our character as a 
nation.

See, there’s a reason our military is the most respected institution in 
America. They don’t see themselves or each other as Democrats first or 
Republicans first. They see themselves as Americans first.

For all our differences and disagreements, they remind us that we are all a 
part of something bigger; that we are one nation and one people. And for 
all our challenges, they remind us that there is nothing we can’t do when 
we stick together.

They’re the finest our nation has to offer. Many will remain in the 
military and go on to the next mission. Others will take off the uniform 
and become veterans. But their commitment to service doesn’t end when they 
take off the uniform -- in fact, I’m confident the story of their service 
to America is just beginning.

After years of rebuilding Iraq, it is time to enlist our veterans and all 
our people in the work of rebuilding America.
 
Folks like my grandfather came back from World War II to form the backbone 
of the largest middle class in history. And today’s generation of veterans 
-- the 9/11 Generation of veterans -- is armed with the skills, discipline, 
and leadership to attack the defining challenge of our time: rebuilding an 
economy where hard work pays off, where responsibility is rewarded, where 
anyone can make it if they try.

Now it is up to us to serve these brave men and women as well as they serve 
us. Every day, they meet their responsibilities to their families and their 
country. Now it’s time to meet ours -- especially those of us who you sent 
to serve in Washington. This cannot be a country where division and discord 
stand in the way of our progress. This is a moment where we must come 
together to ensure that every American has the chance to work for a decent 
living, own their own home, send their kids to college, and secure a decent 
retirement.

This is a moment for us to build a country that lives up to the ideals that 
so many of our bravest Americans have fought and even died for. That is our 
highest obligation as citizens. That is the welcome home that our troops 
deserve.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.