 

 

Barack Obama

Commencement Address at Miami Dade College

delivered 29 April 2011, James L. Knight International Center

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you, Miami Dade! Thank you. Please, everyone, be seated.

Hafeeza, thank you for that wonderful introduction. To Dr. Padrón, Dr. 
Vicente, to the board of trustees, the faculty, parents, family, friends, 
and, most important, the class of 2011, congratulations -- congratulations 
on reaching this day.

And thank you for allowing me the profound honor of being a part of it. And 
thank you for my first honorary associate degree. One of the perks of this 
job is that degrees come free these days.  Not that it impresses anybody at 
home.  Now Michelle just says, “Hey, Doctor, go take that dog for a walk.” 

It is such a thrill to be at one of the largest, most diverse institutions 
of higher learning in America -- one that just this week was named one of 
the top community colleges in the nation. More than 170,000 students study 
across your eight campuses. You come from 181 countries, represented by the 
flags that just marched across this stage. You speak 94 languages. About 90 
percent of you are minorities.  And because more than 90 percent of you 
find a job in your field of study, it’s fitting that your motto is 
“Opportunity changes everything.”

As someone who’s only here because of the chances my education gave me, I 
couldn’t agree more. Opportunity changes everything. America will only be 
as strong in this new century as the opportunities that we provide you -- 
the opportunities that we provide to all our young people -- Latino, black, 
white, Asian, Native American, everybody. America will only be as strong as 
our pursuit of scientific research and our leadership in technology and 
innovation. And I believe that community colleges like this one are 
critical pathways to the middle class that equip students with the skills 
and the education necessary to compete and win in this 21st-century 
economy. And that’s why I’ve made community colleges a centerpiece of my 
education agenda, along with helping more students afford college. I 
couldn’t be prouder of the work we’ve done in community colleges. And your 
accomplishment today is vital to America reclaiming the highest proportion 
of college graduates in the world by 2020.  So I am proud of you. I am 
proud of you.

I know that for many of you reaching this day wasn’t easy.

AUDIENCE:  No.

THE PRESIDENT:  See?  I got some amens there.

Perhaps you’re the first in your family to go to college. Some of you have 
had to overcome big obstacles, defeat your own doubts, prove yourself to 
everyone who ever believed that you couldn’t make it because of what you 
look like or where you came from.  And, of course -- of course, for so many 
of you, this day represents the fulfillment of your family’s dreams when 
you were born.  This is their achievement as well, so give it up for your 
parents and your grandparents, your cousins and your uncles and your 
aunties. This is their day, too.  This is their day, too.

See, the diploma you’re about to receive stands for something more than the 
investment you made in yourselves.  It’s the result of an investment made 
by generations before you; an investment in that radical yet simple idea 
that America is a place -- the place -- where you can make it if you try. 
That’s the ideal that has made this country -- that’s the idea that’s 
represented by that one flag that all of you cheered for; that’s what has 
made us a shining light to the world.

And preserving this idea -- keeping the American Dream alive from one 
generation to the next -- that’s never been an easy task. It’s an even 
greater test in times of rapid change. And all of you are graduating at a 
moment when change is coming faster than ever before. We’re emerging from 
an economic downturn like we haven’t seen since the 1930s. Massive shifts 
in technology have shifted profoundly what our economy looks like. Massive 
shifts abroad geopolitically have swift and dramatic impacts not only 
overseas but also here at home, from markets on Wall Street to wallets on 
Main Street. Just as advances in technology have the power to make our 
lives better, they also force us to compete with other nations like never 
before.  Tackling big challenges like terrorism and climate change require 
sustained national effort, and yet too often, our politics seems as broken, 
as divided as ever.

So I know that for many of you it’s an intimidating time to be marching out 
into the world. Everything seems so unsettled. The future may seem unclear. 
But as you make your way in this ever changing world, you should take 
comfort in knowing that as a country, we’ve navigated tougher times before. 
We’ve sailed stormier seas.  Earlier today, I spent some time in 
Tuscaloosa, Alabama. And some of you have seen what happened there as a 
consequence of the tornadoes that struck. The mayor and I visited a 
community where the devastation from this storm was simply heartbreaking -- 
entire homes and blocks just gone, wiped away. Some families lost 
everything. Some families lost family. 

But what was striking is the way that damaged community has come together, 
how they’ve rallied around one another. The mayor there, young man doing 
wonderful work, Mayor Maddox, he put it best. He told me that when 
disasters like this strike, all our grievances seem to go away. All our 
differences don’t seem to matter. All our political disagreements seem so 
petty. We help each other, we support one another, as one country, as one 
people. 

That’s the American spirit. No matter how hard we are tested, we look to 
our faith and our faith in one another. No matter what the challenge, we’ve 
always carried the American Dream forward. That’s been true throughout our 
history. 

When bombs fell on Pearl Harbor, when an Iron Curtain fell over Europe, 
when the threat of nuclear war loomed just 90 miles from this city, when a 
brilliant September morning was darkened by terror -- in none of those 
instances did we falter. We endured. We carried the dream forward.

We’ve gone through periods of great economic turmoil, from an economy where 
most people worked on farms to one where most people worked in factories to 
now one fueled by information and technology. Through it all, we’ve 
persevered. We’ve adapted. We’ve prospered. Workers found their voice, and 
the right to organize for fair wages and safe working conditions. We 
carried forward.

When waves of Irish and Italian immigrants were derided as criminals and 
outcasts; when Catholics were discriminated against, or Jews had to succumb 
to quotas, or Muslims were blamed for society’s ills; when blacks were 
treated as second-class citizens and marriages like my own parents’ were 
illegal in much of the country -- we didn’t stop. We didn’t accept 
inequality. We fought. We overcame. We carried the dream forward.

We have carried this dream forward through times when our politics seemed 
broken.  This is not the first time where it looked like politicians were 
going crazy. In heated debates over our founding, some warned independence 
would doom America to “a scene of bloody discord and desolation for ages.” 
That was the warning about independence. One of our greatest Presidents, 
Thomas Jefferson, was labeled an “infidel” and a “howling atheist” with 
“fangs.” Think about that. Even I haven’t gotten that one yet. Lincoln -- 
Lincoln, FDR, they were both vilified in their own times as tyrants, power 
hungry, bent on destroying democracy. And of course, this state has seen 
its fair share of tightly contested elections.

And we’ve made it through those moments. None of it was easy. A lot of it 
was messy. Sometimes there was violence. Sometimes it took years, even 
decades, for us to find our way through. But here’s the thing. We made it 
through. We made it through because in each of those moments, we made a 
choice.

Rather than turn inward and wall off America from the rest of the world, 
we’ve chosen to stand up forcefully for the ideals and the rights we 
believe are universal for all men and women.

Rather than settle for an America where everybody is left to fend for 
themselves, where we think only about our own short-term needs instead of 
the country that we’re leaving to our children, we have chosen to build a 
nation where everybody has a shot at opportunity, where everyone can 
succeed. We’ve chosen to invest in our people and in their future -- 
building public schools, sending a generation to college on the GI Bill, 
laying highways and railroads, building ports all across the country.

Rather than turn on each other in times of cultural upheaval, we’ve chosen 
to march, to organize, to sit-in, to turn out, to petition our government 
for women’s rights and voting rights and civil rights -- even in the face 
of fierce resistance -- because we are Americans; and no matter who we are 
or what we look like, we believe that in this country, all are equal, all 
are free.

Rather than give in to the voices suggesting we set our sights lower, 
downsize our dreams, or settle for something less, we’ve chosen again and 
again to make America bigger, bolder, more diverse, more generous, more 
hopeful.

Because throughout our history, what has distinguished us from all other 
nations is not just our wealth, it’s not just our power. It’s been our deep 
commitment to individual freedom and personal responsibility, but also our 
unshakeable commitment to one another -- a recognition that we share a 
future; that we rise or fall together; that we are part of a common 
enterprise that is greater, somehow, than the sum of its parts.

So, yes, class of 2011, change will be a constant in your lives. And that 
can be scary. That can be hard. And sometimes you’ll be tempted to turn 
inward; to say “What’s good enough for me is good enough.” Sometimes you’ll 
be tempted to turn on one another; to say “My problems are the fault of 
those who don’t look like me or sound like me.”  Sometime you’ll be tempted 
to give into those voices that warn: “too hard,” “don’t try,” “no, you 
can’t.”

But I have faith you will reject those voices. I have faith you will reject 
those impulses. Your generation was born into a world with fewer walls; a 
world educated in an era of information, tempered by war and economic 
turmoil. And as our globe has grown smaller and more connected, you’ve shed 
the heavy weights of earlier generations. Your generation has grown up more 
accepting and tolerant of people for who they are, regardless of race or 
gender or religious belief; regardless of creed or sexual orientation. 
That’s how you’ve grown up. You see our diversity as a strength, not a 
weakness. And I believe those life experiences have fortified you, as 
earlier generations were fortified, to meet the tests of our time. 
Everything I have seen of your generation has shown me that you believe, as 
deeply as any previous generation, that America can always change for the 
better.

Class of 2011, you and your generation are now responsible for our future. 
I’m only going to be President a little bit longer. You are going to be 
leaders for many years to come. You will have to make choices to keep our 
dream alive for the next generation. Choices about whether we’ll stack the 
deck against workers and the middle class, or whether we make sure America 
remains a place where if you work hard you can get ahead. You’re going to 
have to make a choice about whether we’ll say we can’t afford to educate 
our young people and send them to college, or whether we continue to be a 
country that makes investments that are necessary to keep those young 
people competitive in this new century. It will be up to you to choose 
whether we’ll remain vulnerable to swings in oil prices or whether we 
invest in the clean energy that can break our dependence on oil and protect 
our planet.  It will be your choice as to whether we break our promise to 
seniors and the poor and the disabled and tell them to fend for themselves, 
or whether we keep strengthening our social safety net and our health care 
system.

And it will be up to you whether we’ll turn on one another, or whether we 
stay true to our values of fairness and opportunity, understanding that we 
are a nation of immigrants -- immigrants that built this country into an 
economic powerhouse and a beacon of hope around the world.

I know this last issue generates some passion. I know that several young 
people here have recently identified themselves as undocumented. Some were 
brought here as young children, and discovered the truth only as adults. 
And they’ve put their futures on the line in hopes it will spur the rest of 
us to live up to our most cherished values.

I strongly believe we should fix our broken immigration system. Fix it so 
that it meets our 21st-century economic and security needs. And I want to 
work with Democrats and Republicans, yes, to protect our borders, and 
enforce our laws, and address the status of millions of undocumented 
workers. And I will keep fighting alongside many of you to make the DREAM 
Act the law of the land.

Like all of this country’s movements towards justice, it will be difficult 
and it will take time.  I know some here wish that I could just bypass 
Congress and change the law myself. But that’s not how democracy works.  
See, democracy is hard.  But it’s right.

Changing our laws means doing the hard work of changing minds and changing 
votes, one by one. And I am convinced we can change the laws, because we 
should all be able to agree that it makes no sense to expel talented young 
people from our country. They grew up as Americans. They pledge allegiance 
to our flag.  And if they are trying to serve in our military or earn a 
degree, they are contributing to our future -- and we welcome those 
contributions.

We didn’t raise the Statue of Liberty with its back to the world; we raised 
it with its light to the world. Whether your ancestors came here on the 
Mayflower or a slave ship; whether they signed in at Ellis Island or they 
crossed the Rio Grande -- we are one people. We need one another. Our 
patriotism is not rooted in ethnicity, but in a shared belief of the 
enduring and permanent promise of this country.

That’s the promise redeemed by your graduation today. That’s the promise 
that drew so many of you to this college and your parents to this country. 
And that’s the promise that drew my own father here.

I didn’t know him well, my father -- and he lived a troubled life. But I 
know that when he was around your age, he dreamed of something more than 
his lot in life. He dreamed of that magical place; he dreamed of coming to 
study in America.

And when I was around your age, I traveled back to his home country of 
Kenya for the first time to learn his story. And I went to a tiny village 
called Alego, where his stepmother still lives in the house where he grew 
up, and I visited his grave. And I asked her if there was anything left for 
me to know him by. And she opened a trunk, and she took out a stack of 
letters -- and this is an elderly woman who doesn’t read or write -- but 
she had saved these letters, more than 30 of them, written in his hand and 
addressed to colleges and universities all across America.

They weren’t that different from the letters that I wrote when I was trying 
to get into college, or the ones that you wrote when you were hoping to 
come here. They were written in the simple, sometimes awkward, sometimes 
grammatically incorrect, unmistakably hopeful voice of somebody who is just 
desperate for a chance -- just desperate to live his unlikely dream.

And somebody at the University of Hawaii -- halfway around the world -- 
chose to give him that chance. And because that person gave a young man a 
chance, he met a young woman from Kansas; they had a son in the land where 
all things are possible.

And one of my earliest memories from growing up in Hawaii, is of sitting on 
my grandfather’s shoulders to see the astronauts from one of the Apollo 
space missions come ashore after a successful splashdown. You remember that 
no matter how young you are as a child. It’s one of those unforgettable 
moments when you first realize the miracle that is what this country is 
capable of. And I remember waving a little American flag on top of my 
grandfather’s shoulders, thinking about those astronauts, and thinking 
about space.

And today, on this day, more than 40 years later, I took my daughters to 
the Kennedy Space Center. And even though we didn’t get to see the Space 
Shuttle Endeavour launch, we met some of the astronauts, and we toured the 
Space Shuttle Atlantis. And looking at my daughters, I thought of how 
things come full circle.  I thought of all that we’ve achieved as a nation 
since I was their age, a little brown boy sitting on my grandfather’s 
shoulders -- and I thought about all I want us to achieve by the time they 
have children of their own.

That’s my proof that the idea of America endures. That’s my evidence that 
our brave endeavor on this Earth continues. And every single day I walk 
into the Oval Office, and for all the days of my life, I will always 
remember that in no other nation on Earth could my story be possible, could 
your stories be possible. That is something I celebrate. That is something 
that drives every decision I make.

So what I ask of you, graduates, as you walk out of here today is this: 
Pursue success. Do not falter. When you make it, pull somebody else up. 
Preserve our dream. Remember your life is richer when people around you 
have a shot at opportunity as well. Strive to widen that circle of 
possibility; strive to forge that big, generous, optimistic vision of 
America that we inherited; strive to carry that dream forward to future 
generations.

Thank you. Congratulations.  May God bless you. May God bless the United 
States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.