 

 

Barack Obama

Address on the Economy at Osawatomie High School

delivered 6 December 2011, Osawatomie, Kansas

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody.

Well, I want to start by thanking a few folks who’ve joined us today. We’ve 
got the mayor of Osawatomie, Phil Dudley is here. We have your 
superintendent Gary French in the house. And we have the principal of 
Osawatomie High, Doug Chisam. And I have brought your former governor, who 
is doing now an outstanding job as Secretary of Health and Human Services 
-- Kathleen Sebelius  is in 
the house. We love Kathleen.

Well, it is great to be back in the state of Tex -- state of Kansas. I was 
giving Bill Self  a hard time, he 
was here a while back. As many of you know, I have roots here. I’m sure 
you’re all familiar with the Obamas of Osawatomie. Actually, I like to say 
that I got my name from my father, but I got my accent -- and my values -- 
from my mother. She was born in Wichita. Her mother grew up in Augusta. Her 
father was from El Dorado. So my Kansas roots run deep.

My grandparents served during World War II. He was a soldier in Patton’s 
Army; she was a worker on a bomber assembly line. And together, they shared 
the optimism of a nation that triumphed over the Great Depression and over 
fascism. They believed in an America where hard work paid off, and 
responsibility was rewarded, and anyone could make it if they tried -- no 
matter who you were, no matter where you came from, no matter how you 
started out.

And these values gave rise to the largest middle class and the strongest 
economy that the world has ever known. It was here in America that the most 
productive workers, the most innovative companies turned out the best 
products on Earth. And you know what? Every American shared in that pride 
and in that success -- from those in the executive suites to those in 
middle management to those on the factory floor. So you could have some 
confidence that if you gave it your all, you’d take enough home to raise 
your family and send your kids to school and have your health care covered, 
put a little away for retirement.

Today, we’re still home to the world’s most productive workers. We’re still 
home to the world’s most innovative companies. But for most Americans, the 
basic bargain that made this country great has eroded. Long before the 
recession hit, hard work stopped paying off for too many people. Fewer and 
fewer of the folks who contributed to the success of our economy actually 
benefited from that success. Those at the very top grew wealthier from 
their incomes and their investments -- wealthier than ever before. But 
everybody else struggled with costs that were growing and paychecks that 
weren’t -- and too many families found themselves racking up more and more 
debt just to keep up.

Now, for many years, credit cards and home equity loans papered over this 
harsh reality. But in 2008, the house of cards collapsed. We all know the 
story by now: Mortgages sold to people who couldn’t afford them, or even 
sometimes understand them. Banks and investors allowed to keep packaging 
the risk and selling it off. Huge bets -- and huge bonuses -- made with 
other people’s money on the line. Regulators who were supposed to warn us 
about the dangers of all this, but looked the other way or didn’t have the 
authority to look at all.

It was wrong. It combined the breathtaking greed of a few with 
irresponsibility all across the system. And it plunged our economy and the 
world into a crisis from which we’re still fighting to recover. It claimed 
the jobs and the homes and the basic security of millions of people -- 
innocent, hardworking Americans who had met their responsibilities but were 
still left holding the bag.

And ever since, there’s been a raging debate over the best way to restore 
growth and prosperity, restore balance, restore fairness. Throughout the 
country, it’s sparked protests and political movements -- from the tea 
party to the people who’ve been occupying the streets of New York and other 
cities. It’s left Washington in a near-constant state of gridlock. It’s 
been the topic of heated and sometimes colorful discussion among the men 
and women running for president.

But, Osawatomie, this is not just another political debate. This is the 
defining issue of our time. This is a make-or-break moment for the middle 
class, and for all those who are fighting to get into the middle class. 
Because what’s at stake is whether this will be a country where working 
people can earn enough to raise a family, build a modest savings, own a 
home, secure their retirement.
 
Now, in the midst of this debate, there are some who seem to be suffering 
from a kind of collective amnesia. After all that’s happened, after the 
worst economic crisis, the worst financial crisis since the Great 
Depression, they want to return to the same practices that got us into this 
mess. In fact, they want to go back to the same policies that stacked the 
deck against middle-class Americans for way too many years. And their 
philosophy is simple: We are better off when everybody is left to fend for 
themselves and play by their own rules.

I am here to say they are wrong. I’m here in Kansas to reaffirm my deep 
conviction that we’re greater together than we are on our own. I believe 
that this country succeeds when everyone gets a fair shot, when everyone 
does their fair share, when everyone plays by the same rules. These aren’t 
Democratic values or Republican values. These aren’t 1 percent values or 99 
percent values. They’re American values. And we have to reclaim them.

You see, this isn’t the first time America has faced this choice. At the 
turn of the last century, when a nation of farmers was transitioning to 
become the world’s industrial giant, we had to decide: Would we settle for 
a country where most of the new railroads and factories were being 
controlled by a few giant monopolies that kept prices high and wages low? 
Would we allow our citizens and even our children to work ungodly hours in 
conditions that were unsafe and unsanitary? Would we restrict education to 
the privileged few? Because there were people who thought massive 
inequality and exploitation of people was just the price you pay for 
progress.

Theodore Roosevelt disagreed  
. He was the Republican son of a wealthy family. He praised what the titans 
of industry had done to create jobs and grow the economy. He believed then 
what we know is true today, that the free market is the greatest force for 
economic progress in human history. It’s led to a prosperity and a standard 
of living unmatched by the rest of the world.

But Roosevelt also knew that the free market has never been a free license 
to take whatever you can from whomever you can. He understood the free 
market only works when there are rules of the road that ensure competition 
is fair and open and honest. And so he busted up monopolies, forcing those 
companies to compete for consumers with better services and better prices. 
And today, they still must. He fought to make sure businesses couldn’t 
profit by exploiting children or selling food or medicine that wasn’t safe. 
And today, they still can’t.

And in 1910, Teddy Roosevelt came here to Osawatomie
 
and he laid out his vision for what he called a New Nationalism. “Our 
country,” he said, “…means nothing unless it means the triumph of a real 
democracy…of an economic system under which each man shall be guaranteed 
the opportunity to show the best that there is in him.”

Now, for this, Roosevelt was called a radical. He was called a socialist -- 
even a communist. But today, we are a richer nation and a stronger 
democracy because of what he fought for in his last campaign: an eight-hour 
work day and a minimum wage for women -- insurance for the unemployed and 
for the elderly, and those with disabilities; political reform and a 
progressive income tax.

Today, over 100 years later, our economy has gone through another 
transformation. Over the last few decades, huge advances in technology have 
allowed businesses to do more with less, and it’s made it easier for them 
to set up shop and hire workers anywhere they want in the world. And many 
of you know firsthand the painful disruptions this has caused for a lot of 
Americans.

Factories where people thought they would retire suddenly picked up and 
went overseas, where workers were cheaper. Steel mills that needed 100 -- 
or 1,000 employees are now able to do the same work with 100 employees, so 
layoffs too often became permanent, not just a temporary part of the 
business cycle. And these changes didn’t just affect blue-collar workers. 
If you were a bank teller or a phone operator or a travel agent, you saw 
many in your profession replaced by ATMs and the Internet.

Today, even higher-skilled jobs, like accountants and middle management can 
be outsourced to countries like China or India. And if you’re somebody 
whose job can be done cheaper by a computer or someone in another country, 
you don’t have a lot of leverage with your employer when it comes to asking 
for better wages or better benefits, especially since fewer Americans today 
are part of a union.

Now, just as there was in Teddy Roosevelt’s time, there is a certain crowd 
in Washington who, for the last few decades, have said, let’s respond to 
this economic challenge with the same old tune. “The market will take care 
of everything,” they tell us. If we just cut more regulations and cut more 
taxes -- especially for the wealthy -- our economy will grow stronger. 
Sure, they say, there will be winners and losers. But if the winners do 
really well, then jobs and prosperity will eventually trickle down to 
everybody else. And, they argue, even if prosperity doesn’t trickle down, 
well, that’s the price of liberty.

Now, it’s a simple theory. And we have to admit, it’s one that speaks to 
our rugged individualism and our healthy skepticism of too much government. 
That’s in America’s DNA. And that theory fits well on a bumper sticker. But 
here’s the problem: It doesn’t work. It has never worked. It didn’t work 
when it was tried in the decade before the Great Depression. It’s not what 
led to the incredible postwar booms of the ‘50s and ‘60s. And it didn’t 
work when we tried it during the last decade. I mean, understand, it’s not 
as if we haven’t tried this theory.

Remember in those years, in 2001 and 2003, Congress passed two of the most 
expensive tax cuts for the wealthy in history. And what did it get us? The 
slowest job growth in half a century. Massive deficits that have made it 
much harder to pay for the investments that built this country and provided 
the basic security that helped millions of Americans reach and stay in the 
middle class -- things like education and infrastructure, science and 
technology, Medicare and Social Security.

Remember that in those same years, thanks to some of the same folks who are 
now running Congress, we had weak regulation, we had little oversight, and 
what did it get us? Insurance companies that jacked up people’s premiums 
with impunity and denied care to patients who were sick, mortgage lenders 
that tricked families into buying homes they couldn’t afford, a financial 
sector where irresponsibility and lack of basic oversight nearly destroyed 
our entire economy.

We simply cannot return to this brand of “you’re on your own” economics if 
we’re serious about rebuilding the middle class in this country. We know 
that it doesn’t result in a strong economy. It results in an economy that 
invests too little in its people and in its future. We know it doesn’t 
result in a prosperity that trickles down. It results in a prosperity 
that’s enjoyed by fewer and fewer of our citizens.

Look at the statistics. In the last few decades, the average income of the 
top 1 percent has gone up by more than 250 percent to 1.2 million dollars 
per year. I’m not talking about millionaires, people who have a million 
dollars. I’m saying people who make a million dollars every single year. 
For the top one hundredth of 1 percent, the average income is now 27 
million dollars per year. The typical CEO who used to earn about 30 times 
more than his or her worker now earns 110 times more. And yet, over the 
last decade the incomes of most Americans have actually fallen by about 6 
percent.

Now, this kind of inequality -- a level that we haven’t seen since the 
Great Depression -- hurts us all. When middle-class families can no longer 
afford to buy the goods and services that businesses are selling, when 
people are slipping out of the middle class, it drags down the entire 
economy from top to bottom. America was built on the idea of broad-based 
prosperity, of strong consumers all across the country. That’s why a CEO 
like Henry Ford made it his mission to pay his workers enough so that they 
could buy the cars he made. It’s also why a recent study showed that 
countries with less inequality tend to have stronger and steadier economic 
growth over the long run.

Inequality also distorts our democracy. It gives an outsized voice to the 
few who can afford high-priced lobbyists and unlimited campaign 
contributions, and it runs the risk of selling out our democracy to the 
highest bidder. It leaves everyone else rightly suspicious that the system 
in Washington is rigged against them, that our elected representatives 
aren’t looking out for the interests of most Americans.

But there’s an even more fundamental issue at stake. This kind of gaping 
inequality gives lie to the promise that’s at the very heart of America: 
that this is a place where you can make it if you try. We tell people -- we 
tell our kids -- that in this country, even if you’re born with nothing, 
work hard and you can get into the middle class. We tell them that your 
children will have a chance to do even better than you do. That’s why 
immigrants from around the world historically have flocked to our shores.

And yet, over the last few decades, the rungs on the ladder of opportunity 
have grown farther and farther apart, and the middle class has shrunk. You 
know, a few years after World War II, a child who was born into poverty had 
a slightly better than 50-50 chance of becoming middle class as an adult. 
By 1980, that chance had fallen to around 40 percent. And if the trend of 
rising inequality over the last few decades continues, it’s estimated that 
a child born today will only have a one-in-three chance of making it to the 
middle class -- 33 percent.

It’s heartbreaking enough that there are millions of working families in 
this country who are now forced to take their children to food banks for a 
decent meal. But the idea that those children might not have a chance to 
climb out of that situation and back into the middle class, no matter how 
hard they work? That’s inexcusable. It is wrong. It flies in the face of 
everything that we stand for.

Now, fortunately, that’s not a future that we have to accept, because 
there’s another view about how we build a strong middle class in this 
country -- a view that’s truer to our history, a vision that’s been 
embraced in the past by people of both parties for more than 200 years.
 
It’s not a view that we should somehow turn back technology or put up walls 
around America. It’s not a view that says we should punish profit or 
success or pretend that government knows how to fix all of society’s 
problems. It is a view that says in America we are greater together -- when 
everyone engages in fair play and everybody gets a fair shot and everybody 
does their fair share.

So what does that mean for restoring middle-class security in today’s 
economy? Well, it starts by making sure that everyone in America gets a 
fair shot at success. The truth is we’ll never be able to compete with 
other countries when it comes to who’s best at letting their businesses pay 
the lowest wages, who’s best at busting unions, who’s best at letting 
companies pollute as much as they want. That’s a race to the bottom that we 
can’t win, and we shouldn’t want to win that race. Those countries don’t 
have a strong middle class. They don’t have our standard of living.

The race we want to win, the race we can win is a race to the top -- the 
race for good jobs that pay well and offer middle-class security. 
Businesses will create those jobs in countries with the highest-skilled, 
highest-educated workers, the most advanced transportation and 
communication, the strongest commitment to research and technology.

The world is shifting to an innovation economy and nobody does innovation 
better than America. Nobody does it better. No one has better colleges. 
Nobody has better universities. Nobody has a greater diversity of talent 
and ingenuity. No one’s workers or entrepreneurs are more driven or more 
daring. The things that have always been our strengths match up perfectly 
with the demands of the moment.

But we need to meet the moment. We’ve got to up our game. We need to 
remember that we can only do that together. It starts by making education a 
national mission -- a national mission. Government and businesses, parents 
and citizens. In this economy, a higher education is the surest route to 
the middle class. The unemployment rate for Americans with a college degree 
or more is about half the national average. And their incomes are twice as 
high as those who don’t have a high school diploma. Which means we 
shouldn’t be laying off good teachers right now -- we should be hiring 
them. We shouldn’t be expecting less of our schools –- we should be 
demanding more. We shouldn’t be making it harder to afford college -- we 
should be a country where everyone has a chance to go and doesn’t rack up 
$100,000 of debt just because they went.

In today’s innovation economy, we also need a world-class commitment to 
science and research, the next generation of high-tech manufacturing. Our 
factories and our workers shouldn’t be idle. We should be giving people the 
chance to get new skills and training at community colleges so they can 
learn how to make wind turbines and semiconductors and high-powered 
batteries. And by the way, if we don’t have an economy that’s built on 
bubbles and financial speculation, our best and brightest won’t all 
gravitate towards careers in banking and finance. Because if we want an 
economy that’s built to last, we need more of those young people in science 
and engineering. This country should not be known for bad debt and phony 
profits. We should be known for creating and selling products all around 
the world that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America.

Today, manufacturers and other companies are setting up shop in the places 
with the best infrastructure to ship their products, move their workers, 
communicate with the rest of the world. And that’s why the over 1 million 
construction workers who lost their jobs when the housing market collapsed, 
they shouldn’t be sitting at home with nothing to do. They should be 
rebuilding our roads and our bridges, laying down faster railroads and 
broadband, modernizing our schools -- all the things other countries are 
already doing to attract good jobs and businesses to their shores.

Yes, business, and not government, will always be the primary generator of 
good jobs with incomes that lift people into the middle class and keep them 
there. But as a nation, we’ve always come together, through our government, 
to help create the conditions where both workers and businesses can 
succeed. And historically, that hasn’t been a partisan idea. Franklin 
Roosevelt worked with Democrats and Republicans to give veterans of World 
War II -- including my grandfather, Stanley Dunham -- the chance to go to 
college on the G.I. Bill. It was a Republican President, Dwight Eisenhower, 
a proud son of Kansas -- who started the Interstate Highway System, and 
doubled down on science and research to stay ahead of the Soviets.

Of course, those productive investments cost money. They’re not free. And 
so we’ve also paid for these investments by asking everybody to do their 
fair share. Look, if we had unlimited resources, no one would ever have to 
pay any taxes and we would never have to cut any spending. But we don’t 
have unlimited resources. And so we have to set priorities. If we want a 
strong middle class, then our tax code must reflect our values. We have to 
make choices.

Today that choice is very clear. To reduce our deficit, I’ve already signed 
nearly $1 trillion of spending cuts into law and I’ve proposed trillions 
more, including reforms that would lower the cost of Medicare and Medicaid.

But in order to structurally close the deficit, get our fiscal house in 
order, we have to decide what our priorities are. Now, most immediately, 
short term, we need to extend a payroll tax cut that’s set to expire at the 
end of this month. If we don’t do that, 160 million Americans, including 
most of the people here, will see their taxes go up by an average of $1,000 
starting in January and it would badly weaken our recovery. That’s the 
short term.

In the long term, we have to rethink our tax system more fundamentally. We 
have to ask ourselves: Do we want to make the investments we need in things 
like education and research and high-tech manufacturing -- all those things 
that helped make us an economic superpower? Or do we want to keep in place 
the tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans in our country? Because we 
can’t afford to do both. That is not politics. That’s just math.

Now, so far, most of my Republican friends in Washington have refused under 
any circumstance to ask the wealthiest Americans to go to the same tax rate 
they were paying when Bill Clinton was president. So let’s just do a trip 
down memory lane here.

Keep in mind, when President Clinton first proposed these tax increases, 
folks in Congress predicted they would kill jobs and lead to another 
recession. Instead, our economy created nearly 23 million jobs and we 
eliminated the deficit. Today, the wealthiest Americans are paying the 
lowest taxes in over half a century. This isn’t like in the early ‘50s, 
when the top tax rate was over 90 percent. This isn’t even like the early 
‘80s, when the top tax rate was about 70 percent. Under President Clinton, 
the top rate was only about 39 percent. Today, thanks to loopholes and 
shelters, a quarter of all millionaires now pay lower tax rates than 
millions of you, millions of middle-class families. Some billionaires have 
a tax rate as low as 1 percent. One percent.

That is the height of unfairness. It is wrong. It’s wrong that in the 
United States of America, a teacher or a nurse or a construction worker, 
maybe earns $50,000 a year, should pay a higher tax rate than somebody 
raking in $50 million. It’s wrong for Warren Buffett’s secretary to pay a 
higher tax rate than Warren Buffett. And by the way, Warren Buffett agrees 
with me. So do most Americans -- Democrats, independents and Republicans. 
And I know that many of our wealthiest citizens would agree to contribute a 
little more if it meant reducing the deficit and strengthening the economy 
that made their success possible.

This isn’t about class warfare. This is about the nation’s welfare. It’s 
about making choices that benefit not just the people who’ve done 
fantastically well over the last few decades, but that benefits the middle 
class, and those fighting to get into the middle class, and the economy as 
a whole.

Finally, a strong middle class can only exist in an economy where everyone 
plays by the same rules, from Wall Street to Main Street. As infuriating as 
it was for all of us, we rescued our major banks from collapse, not only 
because a full-blown financial meltdown would have sent us into a second 
Depression, but because we need a strong, healthy financial sector in this 
country.

But part of the deal was that we wouldn’t go back to business as usual. And 
that’s why last year we put in place new rules of the road that refocus the 
financial sector on what should be their core purpose: getting capital to 
the entrepreneurs with the best ideas, and financing millions of families 
who want to buy a home or send their kids to college.

Now, we’re not all the way there yet, and the banks are fighting us every 
inch of the way. But already, some of these reforms are being implemented.

If you’re a big bank or risky financial institution, you now have to write 
out a “living will” that details exactly how you’ll pay the bills if you 
fail, so that taxpayers are never again on the hook for Wall Street’s 
mistakes. There are also limits on the size of banks and new abilities for 
regulators to dismantle a firm that is going under. The new law bans banks 
from making risky bets with their customers’ deposits, and it takes away 
big bonuses and paydays from failed CEOs, while giving shareholders a say 
on executive salaries.

This is the law that we passed. We are in the process of implementing it 
now. All of this is being put in place as we speak. Now, unless you’re a 
financial institution whose business model is built on breaking the law, 
cheating consumers and making risky bets that could damage the entire 
economy, you should have nothing to fear from these new rules.

Some of you may know, my grandmother worked as a banker for most of her 
life -- worked her way up, started as a secretary, ended up being a vice 
president of a bank. And I know from her, and I know from all the people 
that I’ve come in contact with, that the vast majority of bankers and 
financial service professionals, they want to do right by their customers. 
They want to have rules in place that don’t put them at a disadvantage for 
doing the right thing. And yet, Republicans in Congress are fighting as 
hard as they can to make sure that these rules aren’t enforced.

I’ll give you a specific example. For the first time in history, the 
reforms that we passed put in place a consumer watchdog who is charged with 
protecting everyday Americans from being taken advantage of by mortgage 
lenders or payday lenders or debt collectors. And the man we nominated for 
the post, Richard Cordray, is a former attorney general of Ohio who has the 
support of most attorney generals, both Democrat and Republican, throughout 
the country. Nobody claims he’s not qualified.

But the Republicans in the Senate refuse to confirm him for the job; they 
refuse to let him do his job. Why? Does anybody here think that the problem 
that led to our financial crisis was too much oversight of mortgage lenders 
or debt collectors?

Of course not. Every day we go without a consumer watchdog is another day 
when a student, or a senior citizen, or a member of our Armed Forces -- 
because they are very vulnerable to some of this stuff -- could be tricked 
into a loan that they can’t afford -- something that happens all the time. 
And the fact is that financial institutions have plenty of lobbyists 
looking out for their interests. Consumers deserve to have someone whose 
job it is to look out for them. And I intend to make sure they do. And I 
want you to hear me, Kansas: I will veto any effort to delay or defund or 
dismantle the new rules that we put in place.

We shouldn’t be weakening oversight and accountability. We should be 
strengthening oversight and accountability. I’ll give you another example. 
Too often, we’ve seen Wall Street firms violating major anti-fraud laws 
because the penalties are too weak and there’s no price for being a repeat 
offender. No more. I’ll be calling for legislation that makes those 
penalties count so that firms don’t see punishment for breaking the law as 
just the price of doing business.

The fact is this crisis has left a huge deficit of trust between Main 
Street and Wall Street. And major banks that were rescued by the taxpayers 
have an obligation to go the extra mile in helping to close that deficit of 
trust. At minimum, they should be remedying past mortgage abuses that led 
to the financial crisis. They should be working to keep responsible 
homeowners in their home. We’re going to keep pushing them to provide more 
time for unemployed homeowners to look for work without having to worry 
about immediately losing their house.

The big banks should increase access to refinancing opportunities to 
borrowers who haven’t yet benefited from historically low interest rates. 
And the big banks should recognize that precisely because these steps are 
in the interest of middle-class families and the broader economy, it will 
also be in the banks’ own long-term financial interest. What will be good 
for consumers over the long term will be good for the banks.

Investing in things like education that give everybody a chance to succeed. 
A tax code that makes sure everybody pays their fair share. And laws that 
make sure everybody follows the rules. That’s what will transform our 
economy. That’s what will grow our middle class again. In the end, 
rebuilding this economy based on fair play, a fair shot, and a fair share 
will require all of us to see that we have a stake in each other’s success. 
And it will require all of us to take some responsibility.

It will require parents to get more involved in their children’s education. 
It will require students to study harder. It will require some workers to 
start studying all over again. It will require greater responsibility from 
homeowners not to take out mortgages they can’t afford. They need to 
remember that if something seems too good to be true, it probably is.

It will require those of us in public service to make government more 
efficient and more effective, more consumer-friendly, more responsive to 
people’s needs. That’s why we’re cutting programs that we don’t need to pay 
for those we do. That’s why we’ve made hundreds of regulatory reforms that 
will save businesses billions of dollars. That’s why we’re not just 
throwing money at education, we’re challenging schools to come up with the 
most innovative reforms and the best results.

And it will require American business leaders to understand that their 
obligations don’t just end with their shareholders. Andy Grove, the 
legendary former CEO of Intel, put it best. He said, “There is another 
obligation I feel personally, given that everything I’ve achieved in my 
career, and a lot of what Intel has achieved…were made possible by a 
climate of democracy, an economic climate and investment climate provided 
by the United States.”

This broader obligation can take many forms. At a time when the cost of 
hiring workers in China is rising rapidly, it should mean more CEOs 
deciding that it’s time to bring jobs back to the United States -- not just 
because it’s good for business, but because it’s good for the country that 
made their business and their personal success possible.

I think about the Big Three auto companies who, during recent negotiations, 
agreed to create more jobs and cars here in America, and then decided to 
give bonuses not just to their executives, but to all their employees, so 
that everyone was invested in the company’s success.

I think about a company based in Warroad, Minnesota. It’s called Marvin 
Windows and Doors. During the recession, Marvin’s competitors closed dozens 
of plants, let hundreds of workers go. But Marvin’s did not lay off a 
single one of their 4,000 or so employees -- not one. In fact, they’ve only 
laid off workers once in over a hundred years. Mr. Marvin’s grandfather 
even kept his eight employees during the Great Depression.

Now, at Marvin’s when times get tough, the workers agree to give up some 
perks and some pay, and so do the owners. As one owner said, “You can’t 
grow if you’re cutting your lifeblood -- and that’s the skills and 
experience your workforce delivers.” For the CEO of Marvin’s, it’s about 
the community. He said, “These are people we went to school with. We go to 
church with them. We see them in the same restaurants. Indeed, a lot of us 
have married local girls and boys. We could be anywhere, but we are in 
Warroad.”

That’s how America was built. That’s why we’re the greatest nation on 
Earth. That’s what our greatest companies understand. Our success has never 
just been about survival of the fittest. It’s about building a nation where 
we’re all better off. We pull together. We pitch in. We do our part. We 
believe that hard work will pay off, that responsibility will be rewarded, 
and that our children will inherit a nation where those values live on.

And it is that belief that rallied thousands of Americans to Osawatomie -- 
maybe even some of your ancestors -- on a rain-soaked day more than a 
century ago. By train, by wagon, on buggy, bicycle, on foot, they came to 
hear the vision of a man who loved this country and was determined to 
perfect it.

“We are all Americans,” Teddy Roosevelt told them that day. “Our common 
interests are as broad as the continent.” In the final years of his life, 
Roosevelt took that same message all across this country, from tiny 
Osawatomie to the heart of New York City, believing that no matter where he 
went, no matter who he was talking to, everybody would benefit from a 
country in which everyone gets a fair chance.

And well into our third century as a nation, we have grown and we’ve 
changed in many ways since Roosevelt’s time. The world is faster and the 
playing field is larger and the challenges are more complex. But what 
hasn’t changed -- what can never change -- are the values that got us this 
far. We still have a stake in each other’s success. We still believe that 
this should be a place where you can make it if you try. And we still 
believe, in the words of the man who called for a New Nationalism all those 
years ago, “The fundamental rule of our national life,” he said, “the rule 
which underlies all others -- is that, on the whole, and in the long run, 
we shall go up or down together.” And I believe America is on the way up.

Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Souza) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.