 

 

Barack Obama

Address on Libya

delivered 18 March 2011

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody.

I want to take this opportunity to update the American people about the 
situation in Libya.  Over the last several weeks, the world has watched 
events unfold in Libya with hope and alarm.  Last month, protesters took to 
the streets across the country to demand their universal rights, and a 
government that is accountable to them and responsive to their aspirations. 
 But they were met with an iron fist.

Within days, whole parts of the country declared their independence from a 
brutal regime, and members of the government serving in Libya and abroad 
chose to align themselves with the forces of change.  Moammar Qaddafi 
clearly lost the confidence of his own people and the legitimacy to lead.

Instead of respecting the rights of his own people, Qaddafi chose the path 
of brutal suppression.  Innocent civilians were beaten, imprisoned, and in 
some cases killed.  Peaceful protests were forcefully put down.  Hospitals 
were attacked and patients disappeared.  A campaign of intimidation and 
repression began.

In the face of this injustice, the United States and the international 
community moved swiftly.  Sanctions were put in place by the United States 
and our allies and partners.  The U.N. Security Council imposed further 
sanctions, an arms embargo, and the specter of international accountability 
for Qaddafi and those around him.  Humanitarian assistance was positioned 
on Libya’s borders, and those displaced by the violence received our help.  
Ample warning was given that Qaddafi needed to stop his campaign of 
repression, or be held accountable.  The Arab League and the European Union 
joined us in calling for an end to violence.

Once again, Qaddafi chose to ignore the will of his people and the 
international community.  Instead, he launched a military campaign against 
his own people.  And there should be no doubt about his intentions, because 
he himself has made them clear.

For decades, he has demonstrated a willingness to use brute force through 
his sponsorship of terrorism against the American people as well as others, 
and through the killings that he has carried out within his own borders.  
And just yesterday, speaking of the city of Benghazi -- a city of roughly 
700,000 people -- he threatened, and I quote: “We will have no mercy and no 
pity” -- no mercy on his own citizens.

Now, here is why this matters to us.  Left unchecked, we have every reason 
to believe that Qaddafi would commit atrocities against his people.  Many 
thousands could die.  A humanitarian crisis would ensue.  The entire region 
could be destabilized, endangering many of our allies and partners.  The 
calls of the Libyan people for help would go unanswered.  The democratic 
values that we stand for would be overrun.  Moreover, the words of the 
international community would be rendered hollow.

And that’s why the United States has worked with our allies and partners to 
shape a strong international response at the United Nations.  Our focus has 
been clear: protecting innocent civilians within Libya, and holding the 
Qaddafi regime accountable.

Yesterday, in response to a call for action by the Libyan people and the 
Arab League, the U.N. Security Council passed a strong resolution that 
demands an end to the violence against citizens.  It authorizes the use of 
force with an explicit commitment to pursue all necessary measures to stop 
the killing, to include the enforcement of a no-fly zone over Libya.  It 
also strengthens our sanctions and the enforcement of an arms embargo 
against the Qaddafi regime.

Now, once more, Moammar Qaddafi has a choice.  The resolution that passed 
lays out very clear conditions that must be met.  The United States, the 
United Kingdom, France, and Arab states agree that a cease-fire must be 
implemented immediately.  That means all attacks against civilians must 
stop.  Qaddafi must stop his troops from advancing on Benghazi, pull them 
back from Ajdabiya, Misrata, and Zawiya, and establish water, electricity 
and gas supplies to all areas.  Humanitarian assistance must be allowed to 
reach the people of Libya.

Let me be clear, these terms are not negotiable.  These terms are not 
subject to negotiation.  If Qaddafi does not comply with the resolution, 
the international community will impose consequences, and the resolution 
will be enforced through military action.

In this effort, the United States is prepared to act as part of an 
international coalition.  American leadership is essential, but that does 
not mean acting alone -– it means shaping the conditions for the 
international community to act together.

That’s why I have directed Secretary Gates and our military to coordinate 
their planning, and tomorrow Secretary Clinton will travel to Paris for a 
meeting with our European allies and Arab partners about the enforcement of 
Resolution 1973.  We will provide the unique capabilities that we can bring 
to bear to stop the violence against civilians, including enabling our 
European allies and Arab partners to effectively enforce a no fly zone.  I 
have no doubt that the men and women of our military are capable of 
carrying out this mission.  Once more, they have the thanks of a grateful 
nation and the admiration of the world.

I also want to be clear about what we will not be doing. The United States 
is not going to deploy ground troops into Libya.  And we are not going to 
use force to go beyond a well-defined goal --- specifically, the protection 
of civilians in Libya.  In the coming weeks, we will continue to help the 
Libyan people with humanitarian and economic assistance so that they can 
fulfill their aspirations peacefully.

Now, the United States did not seek this outcome.  Our decisions have been 
driven by Qaddafi’s refusal to respect the rights of his people, and the 
potential for mass murder of innocent civilians.  It is not an action that 
we will pursue alone.  Indeed, our British and French allies, and members 
of the Arab League, have already committed to take a leadership role in the 
enforcement of this resolution, just as they were instrumental in pursuing 
it.  We are coordinating closely with them.  And this is precisely how the 
international community should work, as more nations bear both the 
responsibility and the cost of enforcing international law.

This is just one more chapter in the change that is unfolding across the 
Middle East and North Africa.  From the beginning of these protests, we 
have made it clear that we are opposed to violence.  We have made clear our 
support for a set of universal values, and our support for the political 
and economic change that the people of the region deserve.  But I want to 
be clear:  the change in the region will not and cannot be imposed by the 
United States or any foreign power; ultimately, it will be driven by the 
people of the Arab World.  It is their right and their responsibility to 
determine their own destiny.

Let me close by saying that there is no decision I face as your Commander 
in Chief that I consider as carefully as the decision to ask our men and 
women to use military force.  Particularly at a time when our military is 
fighting in Afghanistan and winding down our activities in Iraq, that 
decision is only made more difficult.  But the United States of America 
will not stand idly by in the face of actions that undermine global peace 
and security.  So I have taken this decision with the confidence that 
action is necessary, and that we will not be acting alone.  Our goal is 
focused, our cause is just, and our coalition is strong.  Thank you very 
much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Souza) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.