 

 

Barack Obama

White House Correspondents Dinner 2011

delivered 30 April 2011, Washington, D.C.

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

All right everybody, please have a seat.

My fellow Americans. Mahalo! It is wonderful to be here at the White House 
Correspondents’ Dinner. What a week. As some of you heard, the state of 
Hawaii released my official long-form birth certificate
 .

Hopefully this puts all doubts to rest. But just in case there are any 
lingering questions, tonight I’m prepared to go a step further. Tonight, 
for the first time, I am releasing my official birth video.

Now, I warn you -- no one has seen this footage in 50 years, not even me. 
But let’s take a look.

Oh, well. Back to square one. I want to make clear to the Fox News table: 
That was a joke. That was not my real birth video. That was a children’s 
cartoon. Call Disney if you don't believe me. They have the original 
long-form version.

Anyway, it’s good to be back with so many esteemed guests. Celebrities. 
Senators. Journalists. Essential government employees. Non-essential 
government employees. You know who you are.

I am very much looking forward to hearing Seth Meyers tonight. He’s a 
young, fresh face who can do no wrong in the eyes of his fans. Seth, enjoy 
it while it lasts.

Yes, I think it is fair to say that when it comes to my presidency, the 
honeymoon is over. For example, some people now suggest that I’m too 
professorial. And I’d like to address that head-on, by assigning all of you 
some reading that will help you draw your own conclusions. Others say that 
I'm arrogant. But I've found a really great self-help tool for this: my 
poll numbers.

I’ve even let down my key core constituency: movie stars. Just the other 
day, Matt Damon -- I love Matt Damon, love the guy -- Matt Damon said he 
was disappointed in my performance. Well, Matt, I just saw “The Adjustment 
Bureau,” so -- right back atcha, buddy.

Of course, there’s someone who I can always count on for support: my 
wonderful wife Michelle. We made a terrific team at the Easter Egg Roll 
this week. I’d give out bags of candy to the kids, and she’d snatch them 
right back out of their little hands. Snatched them.

And where is the National Public Radio table? You guys are still here? 
That's good. I couldn’t remember where we landed on that. Now, I know you 
were a little tense when the GOP tried to cut your funding, but personally 
I was looking forward to new programming like “No Things Considered” -- or 
“Wait, Wait…Don't Fund Me.”

Of course, the deficit is a serious issue. That's why Paul Ryan couldn’t be 
here tonight. His budget has no room for laughter.

Michele Bachmann is here, though, I understand, and she is thinking about 
running for President, which is weird because I hear she was born in 
Canada. Yes, Michele, this is how it starts. Just letting you know.

Tim Pawlenty? He seems all American. But have you heard his real middle 
name?  Tim “Hosni” Pawlenty? What a shame.

My buddy, our outstanding ambassador, Jon Huntsman, is with us. Now, 
there’s something you might not know about Jon. He didn’t learn to speak 
Chinese to go there. Oh, no. He learned English to come here.

And then there’s a vicious rumor floating around that I think could really 
hurt Mitt Romney. I heard he passed universal health care when he was 
governor of Massachusetts. Someone should get to the bottom of that.  

And I know just the guy to do it -- Donald Trump is here tonight! Now, I 
know that he’s taken some flak lately, but no one is happier, no one is 
prouder to put this birth certificate matter
 to rest than the Donald.  And 
that’s because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues that 
matter –- like, did we fake the moon landing?  What really happened in 
Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?

But all kidding aside, obviously, we all know about your credentials and 
breadth of experience. For example -- no, seriously, just recently, in an 
episode of Celebrity Apprentice -- at the steakhouse, the men’s cooking 
team cooking did not impress the judges from Omaha Steaks. And there was a 
lot of blame to go around. But you, Mr. Trump, recognized that the real 
problem was a lack of leadership. And so ultimately, you didn’t blame Lil’ 
Jon or Meatloaf. You fired Gary Busey. And these are the kind of decisions 
that would keep me up at night. Well handled, sir. Well handled. 

Say what you will about Mr. Trump, he certainly would bring some change to 
the White House. Let’s see what we’ve got up there.

So, yes, this has been quite a year in politics, but also in the movies. 
Many people, for instance, were inspired by the King’s Speech. It’s a 
wonderful film. Well, some of you may not know this, but there's now a 
sequel in the works that touches close to home. And because this is a 
Hollywood crowd, tonight I can offer a sneak peek. So can we show the 
trailer, please?

Coming to a theater near you.

Let me close on a serious note. We are having a good time, but as has been 
true for the last several years, we have incredible young men and women who 
are serving in uniform overseas in the most extraordinary of circumstances. 
And we are reminded of their courage and their valor.

We also need to remember our neighbors in Alabama and across the South that 
have been devastated by terrible storms from last week. Michelle and I were 
down there yesterday, and we’ve spent a lot of time with some of the folks 
who have been affected. The devastation is unimaginable and is 
heartbreaking and it’s going to be a long road back. And so we need to keep 
those Americans in our thoughts and in our prayers. But we also need to 
stand with them in the hard months and perhaps years to come.

I intend to make sure that the federal government does that. And I’ve got 
faith that the journalists in this room will do their part for the people 
who have been affected by this disaster -- by reporting on their progress, 
and letting the rest of America know when they will need more help. Those 
are stories that need telling. And that’s what all of you do best, whether 
it’s rushing to the site of a devastating storm in Alabama, or braving 
danger to cover a revolution in the Middle East.

You know, in the last months, we’ve seen journalists threatened, arrested, 
beaten, attacked, and in some cases even killed simply for doing their best 
to bring us the story, to give people a voice, and to hold leaders 
accountable. And through it all, we’ve seen daring men and women risk their 
lives for the simple idea that no one should be silenced, and everyone 
deserves to know the truth.

That’s what you do. At your best that's what journalism is. That’s the 
principle that you uphold. It is always important, but it’s especially 
important in times of challenge, like the moment that America and the world 
is facing now.

So I thank you for your service and the contributions that you make. And I 
want to close by recognizing not only your service, but also to remember 
those that have been lost as a consequence of the extraordinary reporting 
that they’ve done over recent weeks. They help, too, to defend our freedoms 
and allow democracy to flourish.

God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain. Images (C-SPAN 
Screenshots) = Uncertain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.