 

 

Barack Obama

Address at the Martin Luther King Memorial Dedication

delivered 16 October 2011, The National Mall, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

An earthquake and a hurricane may have delayed this day, but this is a day 
that would not be denied.

For this day, we celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s return to the 
National Mall.  In this place, he will stand for all time, among monuments 
to those who fathered this nation and those who defended it; a black 
preacher with no official rank or title who somehow gave voice to our 
deepest dreams and our most lasting ideals, a man who stirred our 
conscience and thereby helped make our union more perfect.

And Dr. King would be the first to remind us that this memorial is not for 
him alone.  The movement of which he was a part depended on an entire 
generation of leaders.  Many are here today, and for their service and 
their sacrifice, we owe them our everlasting gratitude.  This is a monument 
to your collective achievement.

Some giants of the civil rights movement -- like Rosa Parks and Dorothy 
Height, Benjamin Hooks, Reverend Fred Shuttlesworth -- they’ve been taken 
from us these past few years.  This monument attests to their strength and 
their courage, and while we miss them dearly, we know they rest in a better 
place. 

And finally, there are the multitudes of men and women whose names never 
appear in the history books -- those who marched and those who sang, those 
who sat in and those who stood firm, those who organized and those who 
mobilized -- all those men and women who through countless acts of quiet 
heroism helped bring about changes few thought were even possible. “By the 
thousands,” said Dr. King, “faceless, anonymous, relentless young people, 
black and white…have taken our whole nation back to those great wells of 
democracy which were dug deep by the founding fathers in the formulation of 
the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence.”  To those men and 
women, to those foot soldiers for justice, know that this monument is 
yours, as well.

Nearly half a century has passed since that historic March on Washington, a 
day when thousands upon thousands gathered for jobs and for freedom.  That 
is what our schoolchildren remember best when they think of Dr. King -- his 
booming voice across this Mall, calling on America to make freedom a 
reality for all of God’s children, [prophesying] of a day when the jangling 
discord of our nation would be transformed into a beautiful symphony of 
brotherhood.

It is right that we honor that march, that we lift up Dr. King’s “I Have a 
Dream” speech  -- for without that shining moment, 
without Dr. King’s glorious words, we might not have had the courage to 
come as far as we have.  Because of that hopeful vision, because of Dr. 
King’s moral imagination, barricades began to fall and bigotry began to 
fade.  New doors of opportunity swung open for an entire generation.  Yes, 
laws changed, but hearts and minds changed, as well. 

Look at the faces here around you, and you see an America that is more fair 
and more free and more just than the one Dr. King addressed that day.  We 
are right to savor that slow but certain progress -- progress that’s 
expressed itself in a million ways, large and small, across this nation 
every single day, as people of all colors and creeds live together, and 
work together, and fight alongside one another, and learn together, and 
build together, and love one another.

So it is right for us to celebrate today Dr. King’s dream and his vision of 
unity.  And yet it is also important on this day to remind ourselves that 
such progress did not come easily; that Dr. King’s faith was hard-won; that 
it sprung out of a harsh reality and some bitter disappointments. 

It is right for us to celebrate Dr. King’s marvelous oratory, but it is 
worth remembering that progress did not come from words alone.  Progress 
was hard.  Progress was purchased through enduring the smack of billy clubs 
and the blast of fire hoses.  It was bought with days in jail cells and 
nights of bomb threats.  For every victory during the height of the civil 
rights movement, there were setbacks and there were defeats. 

We forget now, but during his life, Dr. King wasn’t always considered a 
unifying figure.  Even after rising to prominence, even after winning the 
Nobel Peace Prize, Dr. King was vilified by many, denounced as a rabble 
rouser and an agitator, a communist and a radical.  He was even attacked by 
his own people, by those who felt he was going too fast or those who felt 
he was going too slow; by those who felt he shouldn’t meddle in issues like 
the Vietnam War or the rights of union workers.  We know from his own 
testimony the doubts and the pain this caused him, and that the controversy 
that would swirl around his actions would last until the fateful day he 
died.

I raise all this because nearly 50 years after the March on Washington, our 
work, Dr. King’s work, is not yet complete.  We gather here at a moment of 
great challenge and great change.  In the first decade of this new century, 
we have been tested by war and by tragedy; by an economic crisis and its 
aftermath that has left millions out of work, and poverty on the rise, and 
millions more just struggling to get by.  Indeed, even before this crisis 
struck, we had endured a decade of rising inequality and stagnant wages.  
In too many troubled neighborhoods across the country, the conditions of 
our poorest citizens appear little changed from what existed 50 years ago 
-- neighborhoods with underfunded schools and broken-down slums, inadequate 
health care, constant violence, neighborhoods in which too many young 
people grow up with little hope and few prospects for the future.

Our work is not done.  And so on this day, in which we celebrate a man and 
a movement that did so much for this country, let us draw strength from 
those earlier struggles.  First and foremost, let us remember that change 
has never been quick.  Change has never been simple, or without 
controversy.  Change depends on persistence.  Change requires 
determination.  It took a full decade before the moral guidance of Brown v. 
Board of Education was translated into the enforcement measures of the 
Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, but those 10 long years did not 
lead Dr. King to give up.  He kept on pushing, he kept on speaking, he kept 
on marching until change finally came.

And then when, even after the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act 
passed, African Americans still found themselves trapped in pockets of 
poverty across the country, Dr. King didn’t say those laws were a failure; 
he didn’t say this is too hard; he didn’t say, let’s settle for what we got 
and go home.  Instead he said, let’s take those victories and broaden our 
mission to achieve not just civil and political equality but also economic 
justice; let’s fight for a living wage and better schools and jobs for all 
who are willing to work.  In other words, when met with hardship, when 
confronting disappointment, Dr. King refused to accept what he called the 
“isness” of today.  He kept pushing towards the “oughtness” of tomorrow.

And so, as we think about all the work that we must do -- rebuilding an 
economy that can compete on a global stage, and fixing our schools so that 
every child -- not just some, but every child -- gets a world-class 
education, and making sure that our health care system is affordable and 
accessible to all, and that our economic system is one in which everybody 
gets a fair shake and everybody does their fair share, let us not be 
trapped by what is.  We can’t be discouraged by what is.  We’ve got to keep 
pushing for what ought to be, the America we ought to leave to our 
children, mindful that the hardships we face are nothing compared to those 
Dr. King and his fellow marchers faced 50 years ago, and that if we 
maintain our faith, in ourselves and in the possibilities of this nation, 
there is no challenge we cannot surmount.

And just as we draw strength from Dr. King’s struggles, so must we draw 
inspiration from his constant insistence on the oneness of man; the belief 
in his words that “we are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, 
tied in a single garment of destiny.”  It was that insistence, rooted in 
his Christian faith, that led him to tell a group of angry young 
protesters, “I love you as I love my own children,” even as one threw a 
rock that glanced off his neck. 

It was that insistence, that belief that God resides in each of us, from 
the high to the low, in the oppressor and the oppressed, that convinced him 
that people and systems could change.  It fortified his belief in 
non-violence.  It permitted him to place his faith in a government that had 
fallen short of its ideals.  It led him to see his charge not only as 
freeing black America from the shackles of discrimination, but also freeing 
many Americans from their own prejudices, and freeing Americans of every 
color from the depredations of poverty.
    
And so at this moment, when our politics appear so sharply polarized, and 
faith in our institutions so greatly diminished, we need more than ever to 
take heed of Dr. King’s teachings.  He calls on us to stand in the other 
person’s shoes; to see through their eyes; to understand their pain.  He 
tells us that we have a duty to fight against poverty, even if we are well 
off; to care about the child in the decrepit school even if our own 
children are doing fine; to show compassion toward the immigrant family, 
with the knowledge that most of us are only a few generations removed from 
similar hardships.

To say that we are bound together as one people, and must constantly strive 
to see ourselves in one another, is not to argue for a false unity that 
papers over our differences and ratifies an unjust status quo.  As was true 
50 years ago, as has been true throughout human history, those with power 
and privilege will often decry any call for change as “divisive.”  They’ll 
say any challenge to the existing arrangements are unwise and 
destabilizing.  Dr. King understood that peace without justice was no peace 
at all; that aligning our reality with our ideals often requires the 
speaking of uncomfortable truths and the creative tension of non-violent 
protest.

But he also understood that to bring about true and lasting change, there 
must be the possibility of reconciliation; that any social movement has to 
channel this tension through the spirit of love and mutuality. 

If he were alive today, I believe he would remind us that the unemployed 
worker can rightly challenge the excesses of Wall Street without demonizing 
all who work there; that the businessman can enter tough negotiations with 
his company’s union without vilifying the right to collectively bargain.  
He would want us to know we can argue fiercely about the proper size and 
role of government without questioning each other’s love for this country 
-- with the knowledge that in this democracy, government is no distant 
object but is rather an expression of our common commitments to one 
another.  He would call on us to assume the best in each other rather than 
the worst, and challenge one another in ways that ultimately heal rather 
than wound.

In the end, that’s what I hope my daughters take away from this monument.  
I want them to come away from here with a faith in what they can accomplish 
when they are determined and working for a righteous cause.  I want them to 
come away from here with a faith in other people and a faith in a 
benevolent God.  This sculpture, massive and iconic as it is, will remind 
them of Dr. King’s strength, but to see him only as larger than life would 
do a disservice to what he taught us about ourselves.  He would want them 
to know that he had setbacks, because they will have setbacks.  He would 
want them to know that he had doubts, because they will have doubts.  He 
would want them to know that he was flawed, because all of us have flaws.

It is precisely because Dr. King was a man of flesh and blood and not a 
figure of stone that he inspires us so.  His life, his story, tells us that 
change can come if you don’t give up.  He would not give up, no matter how 
long it took, because in the smallest hamlets and the darkest slums, he had 
witnessed the highest reaches of the human spirit; because in those moments 
when the struggle seemed most hopeless, he had seen men and women and 
children conquer their fear; because he had seen hills and mountains made 
low and rough places made plain, and the crooked places made straight and 
God make a way out of no way.

And that is why we honor this man -- because he had faith in us.  And that 
is why he belongs on this Mall -- because he saw what we might become.  
That is why Dr. King was so quintessentially American -- because for all 
the hardships we’ve endured, for all our sometimes tragic history, ours is 
a story of optimism and achievement and constant striving that is unique 
upon this Earth.  And that is why the rest of the world still looks to us 
to lead.  This is a country where ordinary people find in their hearts the 
courage to do extraordinary things; the courage to stand up in the face of 
the fiercest resistance and despair and say this is wrong, and this is 
right; we will not settle for what the cynics tell us we have to accept and 
we will reach again and again, no matter the odds, for what we know is 
possible.

That is the conviction we must carry now in our hearts.  As tough as times 
may be, I know we will overcome.  I know there are better days ahead.  I 
know this because of the man towering over us.  I know this because all he 
and his generation endured -- we are here today in a country that dedicated 
a monument to that legacy. 

And so with our eyes on the horizon and our faith squarely placed in one 
another, let us keep striving; let us keep struggling; let us keep climbing 
toward that promised land of a nation and a world that is more fair, and 
more just, and more equal for every single child of God.

Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Images Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Images = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.