 

 

Barack Obama

Address to the Nation on the Dangers of Default

delivered 25 July 2011, East Room of the White House, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf  
   
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good evening.  Tonight, I want to talk about the debate we’ve been having 
in Washington over the national debt -- a debate that directly affects the 
lives of all Americans.

For the last decade, we’ve spent more money than we take in.  In the year 
2000, the government had a budget surplus.  But instead of using it to pay 
off our debt, the money was spent on trillions of dollars in new tax cuts, 
while two wars and an expensive prescription drug program were simply added 
to our nation’s credit card.

As a result, the deficit was on track to top $1 trillion the year I took 
office.  To make matters worse, the recession meant that there was less 
money coming in, and it required us to spend even more -– on tax cuts for 
middle-class families to spur the economy; on unemployment insurance; on 
aid to states so we could prevent more teachers and firefighters and police 
officers from being laid off.  These emergency steps also added to the 
deficit.

Now, every family knows that a little credit card debt is manageable.  But 
if we stay on the current path, our growing debt could cost us jobs and do 
serious damage to the economy.  More of our tax dollars will go toward 
paying off the interest on our loans.  Businesses will be less likely to 
open up shop and hire workers in a country that can’t balance its books.  
Interest rates could climb for everyone who borrows money -– the homeowner 
with a mortgage, the student with a college loan, the corner store that 
wants to expand.  And we won’t have enough money to make job-creating 
investments in things like education and infrastructure, or pay for vital 
programs like Medicare and Medicaid.

Because neither party is blameless for the decisions that led to this 
problem, both parties have a responsibility to solve it.  And over the last 
several months, that’s what we’ve been trying to do.  I won’t bore you with 
the details of every plan or proposal, but basically, the debate has 
centered around two different approaches.

The first approach says, let’s live within our means by making serious, 
historic cuts in government spending.  Let’s cut domestic spending to the 
lowest level it’s been since Dwight Eisenhower was President.  Let’s cut 
defense spending at the Pentagon by hundreds of billions of dollars.  Let’s 
cut out waste and fraud in health care programs like Medicare -- and at the 
same time, let’s make modest adjustments so that Medicare is still there 
for future generations.  Finally, let’s ask the wealthiest Americans and 
biggest corporations to give up some of their breaks in the tax code and 
special deductions.

This balanced approach asks everyone to give a little without requiring 
anyone to sacrifice too much.  It would reduce the deficit by around $4 
trillion and put us on a path to pay down our debt.  And the cuts wouldn’t 
happen so abruptly that they’d be a drag on our economy, or prevent us from 
helping small businesses and middle-class families get back on their feet 
right now.

This approach is also bipartisan.  While many in my own party aren’t happy 
with the painful cuts it makes, enough will be willing to accept them if 
the burden is fairly shared.  While Republicans might like to see deeper 
cuts and no revenue at all, there are many in the Senate who have said, 
“Yes, I’m willing to put politics aside and consider this approach because 
I care about solving the problem.”  And to his credit, this is the kind of 
approach the Republican Speaker of the House, John Boehner, was working on 
with me over the last several weeks.

The only reason this balanced approach isn’t on its way to becoming law 
right now is because a significant number of Republicans in Congress are 
insisting on a different approach -- a cuts-only approach -– an approach 
that doesn’t ask the wealthiest Americans or biggest corporations to 
contribute anything at all.  And because nothing is asked of those at the 
top of the income scale, such an approach would close the deficit only with 
more severe cuts to programs we all care about –- cuts that place a greater 
burden on working families.

So the debate right now isn’t about whether we need to make tough choices.  
Democrats and Republicans agree on the amount of deficit reduction we need. 
 The debate is about how it should be done.  Most Americans, regardless of 
political party, don’t understand how we can ask a senior citizen to pay 
more for her Medicare before we ask a corporate jet owner or the oil 
companies to give up tax breaks that other companies don’t get.  How can we 
ask a student to pay more for college before we ask hedge fund managers to 
stop paying taxes at a lower rate than their secretaries?  How can we slash 
funding for education and clean energy before we ask people like me to give 
up tax breaks we don’t need and didn’t ask for?  

That’s not right.  It’s not fair.  We all want a government that lives 
within its means, but there are still things we need to pay for as a 
country -– things like new roads and bridges; weather satellites and food 
inspection; services to veterans and medical research. 

And keep in mind that under a balanced approach, the 98 percent of 
Americans who make under $250,000 would see no tax increases at all.  None. 
 In fact, I want to extend the payroll tax cut for working families.  What 
we’re talking about under a balanced approach is asking Americans whose 
incomes have gone up the most over the last decade -– millionaires and 
billionaires -– to share in the sacrifice everyone else has to make.  And I 
think these patriotic Americans are willing to pitch in.  In fact, over the 
last few decades, they’ve pitched in every time we passed a bipartisan deal 
to reduce the deficit.  The first time a deal was passed, a predecessor of 
mine made the case for a balanced approach by saying this:

“Would you rather reduce deficits and interest rates by raising revenue 
from those who are not now paying their fair share, or would you rather 
accept larger budget deficits, higher interest rates, and higher 
unemployment?  And I think I know your answer.”

Those words were spoken by Ronald Reagan.  But today, many Republicans in 
the House refuse to consider this kind of balanced approach -– an approach 
that was pursued not only by President Reagan, but by the first President 
Bush, by President Clinton, by myself, and by many Democrats and 
Republicans in the United States Senate.  So we’re left with a stalemate. 

Now, what makes today’s stalemate so dangerous is that it has been tied to 
something known as the debt ceiling -– a term that most people outside of 
Washington have probably never heard of before. 

Understand –- raising the debt ceiling does not allow Congress to spend 
more money.  It simply gives our country the ability to pay the bills that 
Congress has already racked up.  In the past, raising the debt ceiling was 
routine.  Since the 1950s, Congress has always passed it, and every 
President has signed it.  President Reagan did it 18 times.  George W. Bush 
did it seven times.  And we have to do it by next Tuesday, August 2nd, or 
else we won’t be able to pay all of our bills.  

Unfortunately, for the past several weeks, Republican House members have 
essentially said that the only way they’ll vote to prevent America’s 
first-ever default is if the rest of us agree to their deep, spending 
cuts-only approach.   

If that happens, and we default, we would not have enough money to pay all 
of our bills -– bills that include monthly Social Security checks, 
veterans’ benefits, and the government contracts we’ve signed with 
thousands of businesses. 

For the first time in history, our country’s AAA credit rating would be 
downgraded, leaving investors around the world to wonder whether the United 
States is still a good bet.  Interest rates would skyrocket on credit 
cards, on mortgages and on car loans, which amounts to a huge tax hike on 
the American people.  We would risk sparking a deep economic crisis -– this 
one caused almost entirely by Washington.

So defaulting on our obligations is a reckless and irresponsible outcome to 
this debate.  And Republican leaders say that they agree we must avoid 
default.  But the new approach that Speaker Boehner unveiled today, which 
would temporarily extend the debt ceiling in exchange for spending cuts, 
would force us to once again face the threat of default just six months 
from now.  In other words, it doesn’t solve the problem.  

First of all, a six-month extension of the debt ceiling might not be enough 
to avoid a credit downgrade and the higher interest rates that all 
Americans would have to pay as a result.  We know what we have to do to 
reduce our deficits; there’s no point in putting the economy at risk by 
kicking the can further down the road.    

But there’s an even greater danger to this approach.  Based on what we’ve 
seen these past few weeks, we know what to expect six months from now.  The 
House of Representatives will once again refuse to prevent default unless 
the rest of us accept their cuts-only approach.  Again, they will refuse to 
ask the wealthiest Americans to give up their tax cuts or deductions.  
Again, they will demand harsh cuts to programs like Medicare.  And once 
again, the economy will be held captive unless they get their way. 

This is no way to run the greatest country on Earth.  It’s a dangerous game 
that we’ve never played before, and we can’t afford to play it now.  Not 
when the jobs and livelihoods of so many families are at stake.  We can’t 
allow the American people to become collateral damage to Washington’s 
political warfare. 

Congress now has one week left to act, and there are still paths forward.  
The Senate has introduced a plan to avoid default, which makes a down 
payment on deficit reduction and ensures that we don’t have to go through 
this again in six months. 

I think that’s a much better approach, although serious deficit reduction 
would still require us to tackle the tough challenges of entitlement and 
tax reform.  Either way, I’ve told leaders of both parties that they must 
come up with a fair compromise in the next few days that can pass both 
houses of Congress -– and a compromise that I can sign.  I’m confident we 
can reach this compromise.  Despite our disagreements, Republican leaders 
and I have found common ground before.  And I believe that enough members 
of both parties will ultimately put politics aside and help us make 
progress.

Now, I realize that a lot of the new members of Congress and I don’t see 
eye-to-eye on many issues.  But we were each elected by some of the same 
Americans for some of the same reasons.  Yes, many want government to start 
living within its means.  And many are fed up with a system in which the 
deck seems stacked against middle-class Americans in favor of the 
wealthiest few.  But do you know what people are fed up with most of all?

They’re fed up with a town where compromise has become a dirty word.  They 
work all day long, many of them scraping by, just to put food on the table. 
 And when these Americans come home at night, bone-tired, and turn on the 
news, all they see is the same partisan three-ring circus here in 
Washington.  They see leaders who can’t seem to come together and do what 
it takes to make life just a little bit better for ordinary Americans.  
They’re offended by that.  And they should be. 

The American people may have voted for divided government, but they didn’t 
vote for a dysfunctional government.  So I’m asking you all to make your 
voice heard.  If you want a balanced approach to reducing the deficit, let 
your member of Congress know.  If you believe we can solve this problem 
through compromise, send that message.

America, after all, has always been a grand experiment in compromise.  As a 
democracy made up of every race and religion, where every belief and point 
of view is welcomed, we have put to the test time and again the proposition 
at the heart of our founding:  that out of many, we are one.  We’ve engaged 
in fierce and passionate debates about the issues of the day, but from 
slavery to war, from civil liberties to questions of economic justice, we 
have tried to live by the words that Jefferson once wrote:  “Every man 
cannot have his way in all things -- without this mutual disposition, we 
are disjointed individuals, but not a society.” 

History is scattered with the stories of those who held fast to rigid 
ideologies and refused to listen to those who disagreed.  But those are not 
the Americans we remember.  We remember the Americans who put country above 
self, and set personal grievances aside for the greater good.  We remember 
the Americans who held this country together during its most difficult 
hours; who put aside pride and party to form a more perfect union.  

That’s who we remember.  That’s who we need to be right now.  The entire 
world is watching.  So let’s seize this moment to show why the United 
States of America is still the greatest nation on Earth –- not just because 
we can still keep our word and meet our obligations, but because we can 
still come together as one nation. 

Thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Also in this Database: House Speaking John Boehner's Response to President 
Obama's Debt Reduction Plan 

Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.