 

 

Barack Obama

Remarks on the Approved Debt Compromise

delivered 2 August 2011, Rose Garden, The White House

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody.  Congress has now approved a compromise to 
reduce the deficit and avert a default that would have devastated our 
economy.  It was a long and contentious debate.  And I want to thank the 
American people for keeping up the pressure on their elected officials to 
put politics aside and work together for the good of the country. 

This compromise guarantees more than $2 trillion in deficit reduction.  
It’s an important first step to ensuring that as a nation we live within 
our means.  Yet it also allows us to keep making key investments in things 
like education and research that lead to new jobs, and assures that we’re 
not cutting too abruptly while the economy is still fragile. 

This is, however, just the first step.  This compromise requires that both 
parties work together on a larger plan to cut the deficit, which is 
important for the long-term health of our economy.  And since you can’t 
close the deficit with just spending cuts, we’ll need a balanced approach 
where everything is on the table.  Yes, that means making some adjustments 
to protect health care programs like Medicare so they’re there for future 
generations.  It also means reforming our tax code so that the wealthiest 
Americans and biggest corporations pay their fair share.  And it means 
getting rid of taxpayer subsidies to oil and gas companies, and tax 
loopholes that help billionaires pay a lower tax rate than teachers and 
nurses. 

I’ve said it before; I will say it again:  We can’t balance the budget on 
the backs of the very people who have borne the biggest brunt of this 
recession.  We can’t make it tougher for young people to go to college, or 
ask seniors to pay more for health care, or ask scientists to give up on 
promising medical research because we couldn’t close a tax shelter for the 
most fortunate among us.  Everyone is going to have to chip in.  It’s only 
fair.  That’s the principle I’ll be fighting for during the next phase of 
this process.   

And in the coming months, I’ll continue also to fight for what the American 
people care most about:  new jobs, higher wages and faster economic growth. 
 While Washington has been absorbed in this debate about deficits, people 
across the country are asking what we can do to help the father looking for 
work.  What are we going to do for the single mom who’s seen her hours cut 
back at the hospital?  What are we going to do to make it easier for 
businesses to put up that “now hiring” sign? 

That’s part of the reason that people are so frustrated with what’s been 
going on in this town.  In the last few months, the economy has already had 
to absorb an earthquake in Japan, the economic headwinds coming from 
Europe, the Arab Spring and the [rise] in oil prices -- all of which have 
been very challenging for the recovery.  But these are things we couldn’t 
control.  Our economy didn’t need Washington to come along with a 
manufactured crisis to make things worse.  That was in our hands.  It’s 
pretty likely that the uncertainty surrounding the raising of the debt 
ceiling -- for both businesses and consumers -- has been unsettling, and 
just one more impediment to the full recovery that we need.  And it was 
something that we could have avoided entirely.

So, voters may have chosen divided government, but they sure didn’t vote 
for dysfunctional government.  They want us to solve problems.  They want 
us to get this economy growing and adding jobs.  And while deficit 
reduction is part of that agenda, it is not the whole agenda.  Growing the 
economy isn’t just about cutting spending; it’s not about rolling back 
regulations that protect our air and our water and keep our people safe.  
That’s not how we’re going to get past this recession.  We’re going to have 
to do more than that.

And that’s why, when Congress gets back from recess, I will urge them to 
immediately take some steps -- bipartisan, common-sense steps -- that will 
make a difference; that will create a climate where businesses can hire, 
where folks have more money in their pockets to spend, where people who are 
out of work can find good jobs.

We need to begin by extending tax cuts for middle-class families so that 
you have more money in your paychecks next year.  If you’ve got more money 
in your paycheck, you’re more likely to spend it.  And that means small 
businesses and medium-sized businesses and large businesses will all have 
more customers.  That means they’ll be in a better position to hire. 

And while we’re at it, we need to make sure that millions of workers who 
are still pounding the pavement looking for jobs to support their families 
are not denied needed unemployment benefits.

Through patent reform, we can cut the red tape that stops too many 
inventors and entrepreneurs from quickly turning new ideas into thriving 
businesses -- which holds our whole economy back.  And I want Congress to 
pass a set of trade deals -- deals we’ve already negotiated -- that would 
help displaced workers looking for new jobs and would allow our businesses 
to sell more products in countries in Asia and South America, products that 
are stamped with the words “Made in America.”

We also need to give more opportunities to all those construction workers 
out there who lost their jobs when the housing boom went bust.  We could 
put them to work right now, by giving loans to private companies that want 
to repair our roads and our bridges and our airports, rebuilding our 
infrastructure.  We have workers who need jobs and a country that needs 
rebuilding; an infrastructure bank would help us put them together. 

And while we’re on the topic of infrastructure, there’s another stalemate 
in Congress right now involving our aviation industry which has stalled 
airport construction projects all around the country and put the jobs of 
tens of thousands of construction workers and others at risk -– because of 
politics.  It’s another Washington-inflicted wound on America, and Congress 
needs to break that impasse now –- hopefully before the Senate adjourns -– 
so these folks can get back to work.

So these are some things that we could be doing right now.  There’s no 
reason for Congress not to send me those bills so I can sign them into law 
right away as soon as they get back from recess.  Both parties share power 
in Washington, and both parties need to take responsibility for improving 
this economy.  It’s not a Democratic responsibility or a Republican 
responsibility; it is our collective responsibility as Americans.  And I’ll 
be discussing additional ideas in the weeks ahead to help companies hire, 
invest and expand.

So, we’ve seen in the past few days that Washington has the ability to 
focus when there’s a timer ticking down, and when there’s a looming 
disaster.  It shouldn’t take the risk of default -– the risk of economic 
catastrophe -– to get folks in this town to work together and do their 
jobs.  Because there’s already a quiet crisis going on in the lives of a 
lot of families, in a lot of communities, all across the country.  They’re 
looking for work, and they have been for a while; or they’re making do with 
fewer hours or fewer customers; or they’re just trying to make ends meet.  
That ought to compel Washington to cooperate.  That ought to compel 
Washington to compromise, and it ought to compel Washington to act.  That 
ought to be enough to get all of us in this town to do the jobs we were 
sent here to do.  We’ve got to do everything in our power to grow this 
economy and put America back to work.  That’s what I intend to do, and I’m 
looking forward to working with Congress to make it happen.

Thanks very much, everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.