 

 

Barack Obama

Commencement Speech at Booker T. Washington HS

delivered 16 May 2011, Memphis, TN

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 click 
for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Hello, Memphis! Congratulations to the class of 2011!

Now, I will admit being President is a great job. I have a very nice plane. 
I have a theme song. But what I enjoy most is having a chance to come to a 
school like Booker T. Washington High School and share this day with its 
graduates. So I could not be more pleased to be here.

We've got some wonderful guests who are here as well, and I just want to 
make mention of them very quickly. First of all, the Governor of Tennessee, 
Bill Haslam, is here. Please give him a big round of applause. Three 
outstanding members of the Tennessee congressional delegation, all of whom 
care deeply about education -- Senator Bob Corker, Senator Lamar Alexander, 
and Congressman Steve Cohen is here. You've got one of Memphis's own, 
former Congressman Harold Ford, Jr. is in the house. And the Mayor of 
Memphis, A.C. Wharton is here. Please give him a big round of applause.

I am so proud of each and every one of you.

STUDENT: Thank you!

THE PRESIDENT: You're welcome. You made it -- and not just through high 
school. You made it past Principal Kiner. I've spent a little bit of time 
with her now, and you can tell she is not messing around. I've only been in 
Memphis a couple of hours, but I'm pretty sure that if she told me to do 
something I'd do it.

Then I had the chance to meet her mom and her daughter, Amber, a little 
while back, and we took a picture. It turns out Amber actually goes to 
another high school. She was worried that the boys would be afraid to talk 
to her if her mom was lurking in the hallways -- which is why my next job 
will be principal at Sasha and Malia's high school. And then I'll be 
president of their college.

Let me also say to Alexis and Vashti -- I heard that you were a little 
nervous about speaking today, but now I'm a little nervous speaking after 
you, because you both did terrific jobs. We've had some great performances 
by Shalonda and Tecia and Paula, and the jazz band. Give them a big round 
of applause.

Last but not least, I want to recognize all the people who helped you to 
reach this milestone: the parents, the grandparents, the aunts, the uncles, 
the sisters, the brothers, the friends, the neighbors -- who have loved you 
and stood behind you every step of the way. Congratulations, family.

And I want to acknowledge the devoted teachers and administrators at Booker 
T. Washington, who believed in you -- who kept the heat on you, and have 
never treated teaching as a job, but rather as a calling.

Every commencement is a day of celebration. I was just telling somebody 
backstage, I just love commencements. I get all choked up at commencements. 
So I can tell you already right now, I will cry at my children's 
commencement. I cry at other people's commencements. But this one is 
especially hopeful. This one is especially hopeful because some people say 
that schools like BTW just aren't supposed to succeed in America. You'll 
hear them say, "The streets are too rough in those neighborhoods." "The 
schools are too broken." "The kids don't stand a chance."

We are here today because every single one of you stood tall and said, 
"Yes, we can." Yes, we can learn. Yes, we can succeed. You decided you 
would not be defined by where you come from but by where you want to go, by 
what you want to achieve, by the dreams you hope to fulfill.

Just a couple of years ago, this was a school where only about half the 
students made it to graduation. For a long time, just a handful headed to 
college each year. But at Booker T. Washington, you changed all that.

You created special academies for ninth graders to start students off on 
the right track. You made it possible for kids to take AP classes and earn 
college credits. You even had a team take part in robotics competition so 
students can learn with their hands by building and creating. And you 
didn't just create a new curriculum, you created a new culture -- a culture 
that prizes hard work and discipline; a culture that shows every student 
here that they matter and that their teachers believe in them. As Principal 
Kiner says, the kids have to know that you care, before they care what you 
know.

And because you created this culture of caring and learning, today we're 
standing with a very different Booker T. Washington High School. Today, 
this is a place where more than four out of five students are earning a 
diploma; a place where 70 percent of the graduates will continue their 
education; where many will be the very first in their families to go to 
college.

Today, Booker T. Washington is a place that has proven why we can't accept 
excuses -- any excuses -- when it comes to education. In the United States 
of America, we should never accept anything less than the best that our 
children have to offer.

As your teacher Steve McKinney -- where's Steve at? There he is. AKA Big 
Mac. And I see why they call you Big Mac. As Mr. McKinney said in the local 
paper, "We need everyone to broaden their ideas about what is possible. We 
need parents, politicians, and the media to see how success is possible, 
how success is happening every day."

So that's why I came here today. Because if success can happen here at 
Booker T. Washington, it can happen anywhere in Memphis. And if it can 
happen in Memphis, it can happen anywhere in Tennessee. And it can happen 
anywhere in Tennessee, it can happen all across America.

So ever since I became President, my administration has been working hard 
to make sure that we build on the progress that's taking place in schools 
like this. We've got to encourage the kind of change that's led not by 
politicians, not by Washington, D.C., but by teachers and principals and 
parents, and entire communities; by ordinary people standing up and 
demanding a better future for their children.

We have more work to do so that every child can fulfill his or her 
God-given potential. And here in Tennessee we've been seeing great 
progress. Tennessee has been a leader, one of the first winners of the 
nationwide "Race to the Top" that we've launched to reward the kind of 
results you're getting here at Booker T. Washington.

And understand, this isn't just an issue for me. I'm standing here as 
President because of the education that I received. As Chris said, my 
father left my family when I was two years old. And I was raised by a 
single mom, and sometimes she struggled to provide for me and my sister. 
But my mother, my grandparents, they pushed me to excel. They refused to 
let me make excuses. And they kept pushing me, especially on those rare 
occasions where I'd slack off or get into trouble. They weren't that rare, 
actually. I'm sure nobody here has done anything like that.

I'm so blessed that they kept pushing; I'm so lucky that my teachers kept 
pushing -- because education made all the difference in my life. The same 
is true for Michelle. Education made such a difference in her life. 
Michelle's dad was a city worker, had multiple sclerosis, had to wake up 
every day and it took him a couple hours just to get ready for work. But he 
went to work every day. Her mom was a secretary, went to work every day, 
and kept on pushing her just like my folks pushed me.

That's what's made a difference in our lives. And it's going to make an 
even greater difference in your lives -- not just for your own success but 
for the success of the United States of America. Because we live in a new 
world now. Used to be that you didn't have to have an education. If you 
were willing to work hard, you could go to a factory somewhere and get a 
job. Those times are passed. Believe it or not, when you go out there 
looking for a job, you're not just competing against people in Nashville or 
Atlanta. You're competing against young people in Beijing and Mumbai. 
That's some tough competition. Those kids are hungry. They're working hard. 
And you'll need to be prepared for it.

And as a country, we need all of our young people to be ready. We can't 
just have some young people successful. We've got to have every young 
person contributing; earning those high school diplomas and then earning 
those college diplomas, or getting certified in a trade or profession. We 
can't succeed without it.

Through education, you can also better yourselves in other ways. You learn 
how to learn -- how to think critically and find solutions to unexpected 
challenges. I remember we used to ask our teachers, "Why am I going to need 
algebra?" Well, you may not have to solve for x to get a good job or to be 
a good parent. But you will need to think through tough problems. You'll 
need to think on your feet. You'll need to know how to gather facts and 
evaluate information. So, math teachers, you can tell your students that 
the President says they need algebra.

Education also teaches you the value of discipline -- that the greatest 
rewards come not from instant gratification but from sustained effort and 
from hard work. This is a lesson that's especially true today, in a culture 
that prizes flash over substance, that tells us that the goal in life is to 
be entertained, that says you can be famous just for being famous. You get 
on a reality show -- don't know what you've done -- suddenly you're famous. 
But that's not going to lead to lasting, sustained achievement.

And finally, with the right education, both at home and at school, you can 
learn how to be a better human being. For when you read a great story or 
you learn about an important moment in history, it helps you imagine what 
it would be like to walk in somebody else's shoes, to know their struggles. 
The success of our economy will depend on your skills, but the success of 
our community will depend on your ability to follow the Golden Rule -- to 
treat others as you would like to be treated.

We've seen how important this is even in the past few weeks, as communities 
here in Memphis and all across the South have come together to deal with 
floodwaters, and to help each other in the aftermath of terrible tornadoes.

All of these qualities -- empathy, discipline, the capacity to solve 
problems, the capacity to think critically -- these skills don't just 
change how the world sees us. They change how we see ourselves. They allow 
each of us to seek out new horizons and new opportunities with confidence 
-- with the knowledge that we're ready; that we can face obstacles and 
challenges and unexpected setbacks. That's the power of your education. 
That's the power of the diploma that you receive today.

And this is something that Booker T. Washington himself understood. Think 
about it. He entered this world a slave on a Southern plantation. But he 
would leave this world as the leader of a growing civil rights movement and 
the president of the world-famous Tuskegee Institute.

Booker T. Washington believed that change and equality would be won in the 
classroom. So he convinced folks to help him buy farmland. Once he had the 
land, he needed a school. So he assigned his first students to actually 
build the chairs and the desks and even a couple of the classrooms. You 
thought your teachers were tough.

Booker T. Washington ran a tight ship. He'd ride the train to Tuskegee and 
scare some of the new students. This is before YouTube
 and TMZ  , so the kids 
didn't recognize him. He'd walk up to them and say, "Oh, you're heading to 
Tuskegee. I heard the work there is hard. I heard they give the students 
too much to do. I hear the food is terrible. You probably won't last three 
months." But the students would reply they weren't afraid of hard work. 
They were going to complete their studies no matter what Booker T. 
Washington threw at them. And in that way, he prepared them -- because life 
will throw some things at you.

The truth is, not a single one of the graduates here today has had it easy. 
Not a single one of you had anything handed to you on a silver platter. You 
had to work for it. You had to earn it. Most of all, you had to believe in 
yourselves.

I think of Chris's stories, and what he's faced in his life: Lost his 
father to violence at the age of four. Had a childhood illness that could 
have been debilitating. But somehow he knew in his heart that he could take 
a different path.

I think of all the graduates here who had to leave their homes when their 
apartments were torn down, but who took two buses each morning to come back 
to Booker T. Washington.

I think of Eron Jackon. Where is Eron? Eron has known a lot of setbacks in 
her young life. There was a period when she lashed out and she got into 
trouble and she made mistakes. And when she first came to Booker T. 
Washington, she struggled. Is that right? There are plenty of people out 
there who would have counted Eron out; a lot of people who would have 
thought of her as another statistic. But that's not how the teachers here 
at Booker T. Washington saw her. And that's not how Eron came to see 
herself. So she kept coming back to school, and she didn't give up and she 
didn't quit. And in time, she became a great student.

And she remembered what Principal Kiner told her: "You can't let the past 
get you down. You have to let it motivate you." And so now here Eron is, 
graduating. She's going to keep studying to get her barber's certificate so 
she can cut hair and save for college. She's working toward her dream to 
becoming a lawyer. She's got a bright future.

Everybody here has got a unique story like that to tell. Each of you knows 
what it took for you to get here. But in reaching this milestone, there is 
a common lesson shared by every graduate in this hall. And Chris said it 
himself in a recent interview: "It's not where you are or what you are. 
It's who you are."

Yes, you're from South Memphis. Yes, you've always been underdogs. Nobody 
has handed you a thing. But that also means that whatever you accomplish in 
your life, you will have earned it. Whatever rewards and joys you reap, 
you'll appreciate them that much more because they will have come through 
your own sweat and tears, products of your own effort and your own talents. 
You've shown more grit and determination in your childhoods than a lot of 
adults ever will. That's who you are.

So, class of 2011, the hard road does not end here. Your journey has just 
begun. Your diploma is not a free pass. It won't protect you against every 
setback or challenge or mistake. You'll make some, I promise. You're going 
to have to keep working hard. You're going to have to keep pushing 
yourselves. And you'll find yourselves sometime in situations where folks 
have had an easier time, they're a little bit ahead of you, and you're 
going to have to work harder than they are. And you may be frustrated by 
that.

But if you do push yourselves, if you build on what you've already 
accomplished here, then I couldn't be more confident about your futures. 
I'm hopeful and I'm excited about what all of you can achieve. And I know 
that armed with the skills and experience and the love that you've gained 
at Booker T. Washington High School, you're ready to make your mark on the 
world.

So thank you. Thanks for inspiring me. God bless you. God bless the United 
States.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image (Screenshot) = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.