 

 

Barack Obama

Department of Defense Personnel Announcement

delivered 30 May 2011, Rose Garden, White House

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

All right.  Good morning.  In a few moments, I’ll be joining members of our 
armed forces, their families, and veterans for the Memorial Day observance 
at Arlington.  There, and across our nation, we’ll pause to honor all those 
who’ve given their last full measure of devotion in defense of our country. 
 Theirs was the ultimate sacrifice, but it is one that every man and woman 
who wears America’s uniform is prepared to make -- so that we can live 
free.

The men and women of our armed forces are the best our nation has to offer, 
and they deserve nothing but the absolute best in return.  And that 
includes leaders who will guide them, and support their families, with 
wisdom and strength and compassion.  And that’s what I expect as 
Commander-in-Chief as we work to keep our nation secure and our military 
the finest in the world.
 
I found those qualities in Leon Panetta, who I announced last month as my 
choice to succeed our outstanding Secretary of Defense, Bob Gates, who I 
thank for joining us today.  And I found these qualities in the leaders who 
will complete our team at the Pentagon and whom I’m proud to announce today 
-- General Martin Dempsey as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral 
James Winnefeld as the Vice Chairman, and to succeed General Dempsey as 
Chief of Staff of the Army, General Ray Odierno.  

The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is the principal military advisor 
to me and my national security team, including the Secretary of Defense.  
Since taking office, I’ve been very grateful for the leadership of the 
current Chairman, Admiral Mike Mullen, and the Vice Chairman, General Jim 
“Hoss” Cartwright.  These two men have served our nation with distinction 
for decades, and I look forward to paying tribute to their lives of service 
in the months ahead. 

Today, I’ll simply say that, like President Bush before me, I’ve deeply 
valued Mike’s professional steadiness and his personal integrity.  On his 
watch, our military forces have excelled across the whole spectrum of 
missions, from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan to relief efforts after the 
Haiti earthquake.  He’s helped revitalize NATO, reset our relations with 
Russia, and steer our relationship with Pakistan and China.  And I believe 
that history will also record Mike Mullen as the Chairman who said what he 
believed was right and declared that no one in uniform should ever have to 
sacrifice their integrity to serve their country.

I’ve also benefited enormously from the advice and counsel of Hoss 
Cartwright.  Hoss is that rare combination of technical expert -- from 
cyber to missile defense -- and strategic thinker, whether it was updating 
our nuclear posture or preparing our military for 21st-century missions.  
I’ll always be personally grateful to Hoss for his friendship and 
partnership.  And as he concludes four decades of service in the Marine 
Corps that he loves, he can do so knowing that our nation is more secure, 
and our military is stronger, because of his remarkable career. 

And I know that Michelle joins me in saluting Deborah Mullen and Sandee 
Cartwright for their decades of extraordinary service, especially as 
champions of our inspiring military families.

With the advice and consent of the Senate, it is our hope and expectation 
that Leon Panetta will soon take the reigns as Secretary of Defense.  
General Cartwright’s term ends this summer; Admiral Mullen’s term ends this 
fall.  I’m announcing my choice for their successors today because it’s 
essential that this transition be seamless and that we stay focused on the 
urgent national security challenges before us.  And I want to thank Deputy 
Secretary of Defense Bill Lynn for the continuity that he’ll provide during 
this transition.

With nearly 40 years in uniform, Martin Dempsey is one of our nation’s most 
respected -- and combat-tested --generals.  In Iraq, he led our soldiers 
against a brutal insurgency.  Having trained Iraqi forces, he knows that 
nations must ultimately take responsibility for their own security.  Having 
served as acting commander of Central Command, he understands that in Iraq 
and Afghanistan security gains and political progress must go hand in hand. 
 And just as he challenged the Army to embrace new doctrine and tactics, I 
expect him to push all our forces to continue adapting and innovating to be 
ready for the missions of today and tomorrow.

I was proud to nominate Marty as Army Chief of Staff, and I realized he 
only assumed that position last month.  Marty, your tenure as Chief may go 
down as one of the shortest in Army history.  But it’s your lifetime of 
accomplishment that brings us here today.  And I thank you for your 
willingness to take on this new assignment, along with your wife Deanie and 
your three children, all of whom have served in the Army. 

Today, I want every one of our men and women in uniform to hear the words 
that you spoke to your soldiers on your first day as Chief, because it’s 
our shared message to all who serve, especially our troops in harm’s way:  
“We will provide whatever it takes to achieve our objectives in the current 
fight.”

As Vice Chairman, Admiral Sandy Winnefeld will draw on more than 30 years 
of distinguished service.  Under his command, fighters from the aircraft 
carrier USS Enterprise pounded Taliban positions in the weeks after 9/11 
and his carrier strike group played a critical role in air operations over 
Iraq.  Having served as a NATO commander, Sandy is well known to our 
allies.  Having served on the Joint Staff, he is known and trusted here at 
the White House. 

Most recently, as head of Northern Command, Sandy’s been responsible for 
the defense of our homeland and support to states and communities in times 
of crisis, such as the recent tornadoes and the floods along the 
Mississippi.  He’s supported our Mexican partners in their fight against 
the cartels and our Japanese allies in the response to their nuclear 
emergency.  So Sandy knows that we have to be prepared for the full range 
of challenges.  Sandy, I thank you and your wife Mary and your two sons for 
your continued service.       

I’ve selected General Dempsey and Admiral Winnefeld because of their record 
-- and potential -- as individuals.  But I’ve also selected them because 
they will make an extraordinary team -- despite their competing loyalties 
to Army and Navy.  Between them, they bring deep experience in virtually 
every domain -- land, air, space, sea, cyber.  Both of them have the 
respect and the trust of our troops on the frontlines, our friends in 
Congress, and allies and partners abroad.  And both of them have my full 
confidence.

They both have something else.  For the first time, the Chairman and Vice 
Chairman will have the experience of leading combat operations in the years 
since 9/11.  Two moments in particular speak to this leadership.  On the 
morning of September 11, 2001, the Enterprise was returning home from the 
Persian Gulf when word came of the attacks.  Rather than wait for orders, 
Sandy took the initiative, reversed course, and put his ship and aircraft 
within range of Afghanistan by the next morning, setting the stage for the 
strikes that followed.  A few years later, as Marty’s 1st Armored Division 
was rotating out of Iraq, he suddenly got new orders.  He turned his 
division around, shifted to new parts of Iraq, and defeated an insurgent 
uprising -- a remarkable maneuver that has entered the annals of Army 
history.

And while I know that folks across the Army are proud to see one of their 
own selected as Chairman, I also know this means losing their new Chief in 
a time of war.  And that’s why, for the next Army Chief of Staff, I’m 
nominating one of the Army’s most accomplished soldiers -- and one of the 
tallest -- General Ray Odierno.  In three pivotal deployments to Iraq, he 
commanded the troops that captured Saddam Hussein, partnered with General 
Petraeus to help bring down the violence, and then transferred 
responsibility to Iraqi forces, allowing us to remove some 100,000 American 
troops and end our combat mission.   

After years on the frontlines, Ray understands what the Army must do -- to 
prevail in today’s wars, to prepare for the future, and to preserve the 
readiness of the soldiers and families who are the strength of America’s 
families.  And we’re fortunate that Ray’s dedication to our soldiers is 
shared by his wife Linda and their family, including their son Tony, a 
combat veteran and advocate for his fellow wounded warriors.

I urge our friends in the Senate to confirm these outstanding individuals 
as swiftly as possible.  They’re innovative, flexible, focused on the 
future, and deeply devoted to our troops and their families.  General 
Dempsey, Admiral Winnefeld, we have much to do -- from bringing our troops 
home from Iraq to beginning to reduce our forces in Afghanistan this summer 
and transitioning to Afghan lead; from defeating al Qaeda to protecting the 
Libyan people.  All this, even as we make difficult budget decisions while 
keeping our military the finest fighting force in the world.

Above all, as Commander-in-Chief, I’ll be looking to you, and the rest of 
the Joint Chiefs, for what I value most in my advisors -- your honest, 
unvarnished advice, and the full range of options, especially when it comes 
to our most solemn obligation:  protecting the lives of our brave men and 
women in uniform.  We have no greater responsibility, as we are reminded 
today when we honor all those who sacrificed so that we can enjoy the 
blessings of freedom.

So, again, to Marty, Sandy, and Ray, as well as your families, thank you 
for your patriotic service and your readiness to lead once more.  Thank you 
very much, everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.