 

 

Barack Obama

Speech on the National Wireless Initiative

delivered 10 February 2011, Northern Michigan University, Marquette, MI

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

It is wonderful to be here in the Upper Peninsula with so many Yoopers
 .  How many of you are Green Bay 
fans, too?  I’ve been seeing too many Green Bay fans lately.
 
It is great to be here.  It is great to be at Northern Michigan University. 
 We’ve got some wonderful guests here that I just want to mention.  First 
of all, somebody who is as good a public servant, not just good at what he 
does but good at heart and works tirelessly on behalf of the entire state, 
your senior senator, Carl Levin, is here.  Now, his partner in the Senate 
could not be here because she’s actually leading a Democratic caucus 
retreat, but she’s been fighting for manufacturing, for broadband, for a 
lot of things that we’re talking about here today.  So I just want to 
acknowledge Debbie Stabenow, who deeply cares about the work that you do up 
here.
 
I want to thank the great hospitality of Mayor John Kivela, who has been 
showing me around town.  Thank you so much, Mayor Kivela. The President of 
Northern Michigan University, Dr. Les Wong, is here. And all of you are 
here. And you guys are pretty special.  Absolutely.  
 
Before I begin, I just want to say that we are following today’s events in 
Egypt very closely.  And we’ll have more to say as this plays out.  But 
what is absolutely clear is that we are witnessing history unfold.  It’s a 
moment of transformation that’s taking place because the people of Egypt 
are calling for change.  And they’ve turned out in extraordinary numbers 
representing all ages and all walks of life, but it’s young people who’ve 
been at the forefront -- a new generation, your generation, who want their 
voices to be heard.  And so going forward, we want those young people and 
we want all Egyptians to know America will continue to do everything that 
we can to support an orderly and genuine transition to democracy in Egypt.
 
Now, as we watch what’s taking place, we’re also reminded that we live in 
an interconnected world.  What happens across the globe has an impact on 
each and every one of us.  And that’s why I’ve come to Marquette today -- 
not only because it’s beautiful, and the people are really nice -- which is 
true.  But I’ve come here because in the 21st century, it’s not just the 
big cities where change is happening.  It’s also in towns like this where 
the jobs and businesses of tomorrow will take root, and where young and 
talented Americans can lead.  It’s towns like this where our economic 
future will be won.  
 
Now, in the short term, the best thing we can do to speed up economic 
growth is to make sure families and businesses have more money to spend, 
and that’s exactly what -- got a little applause there.  That’s exactly why 
we passed those tax cuts in December.  That’s what it’s doing.  Because 
Democrats and Republicans came together, Americans’ paychecks will be a 
little bigger this year and businesses will be able to write off their 
investments and companies will grow and they’ll add workers.  But we’ve got 
more to do.  
 
Our measure of success has to be whether every American who wants a job can 
find a job; whether this country is still the place where you can make it 
if you try.  In a world that’s more connected and more competitive, other 
nations look at this moment as their moment, their turn to win the jobs and 
industries of our time.  I see things differently.  I see this as America’s 
moment to win the future, so that the 21st century is the American century 
just like the 20th century was.  Yes we can.
 
But to do this, we’re going to have to up our game, Marquette.  We got to 
up our game.  To attract the best jobs, the newest industries, we’re going 
to have to out-innovate, out-educate, out-build.  We’re going to have to 
out-hustle the rest of the world.  That means investing in cutting-edge 
research and technology, like the new advanced battery manufacturing 
industry that’s taking root right here in the state of Michigan.  It means 
investing in the skills and training of our people, just like it’s taking 
place at this university.  It means investing in transportation and 
communications networks that move goods and information as fast as 
possible.
 
And to make room for these investments, we’re going to have to cut whatever 
spending we can do without.  We’ve got a real issue with debts and deficit, 
and so we’ve got to live within our means.  And that means that we’ve got 
to cut out things that aren’t adding to growth and opportunity in order to 
invest in those things that are.
 
And that’s why I’ve proposed that we freeze annual domestic spending for 
the next five years.  That will reduce the deficit by more than 400 billion 
dollars over the next decade.  It will bring spending to the lowest share 
of our economy since Eisenhower was President.  That’s a long time ago.  
Even I wasn’t born then.
 
So government has to do what American families do every day: live within 
our means.  But even as we do so, we can’t sacrifice our future.  I’ll just 
give you guys an analogy.  If you’re trying to cut back in your family, you 
might decide, we’re not going to go out to dinner so often; maybe we’ll 
skip the vacation; we’re not going to remodel the kitchen.  But you 
wouldn’t stop saving for your child’s college education.  You wouldn’t stop 
saving for your own retirement.  If your boiler was broken or your roof had 
a leak, you’d still go ahead and make those investments.  
 
Well, the same is true with our country.  We’ve got to cut out the 
equivalence of eating out and vacations.  I know there may be some 
restaurant owners here -- go eat at their restaurants -- but I’m just 
making a general point.  Even as we cut out the things we can afford to do 
without, we got a responsibility to invest in those areas that will have 
the biggest impact on our future, and those things are innovation, 
education and infrastructure.  
 
And that last area -- infrastructure -- is why I’ve come here today.  
Connecting a country of our size has never been easy.  Just imagine what 
Americans experienced when they fanned out from 13 colonies to settle a 
continent.  If you wanted to get from one coast to the other, it would take 
you months; it would cost you a small fortune.  If you settled in the 
heartland, you were an island, with no real market to sell your goods or 
buy what you needed.  You might have to wait until the traders came by 
before you stocked up.
 
So we decided to build a railroad to span a continent -- one that would 
blast through mountains of granite and use thousands of miles of steel, and 
put to work an army of citizens and immigrants to work.  It was an endeavor 
that would also require support of our government.  It didn’t just happen 
on its own.  As General William T. Sherman said, “Uncle Sam is the only 
giant I know who can grapple the subject.”
 
So even as President Lincoln tried to hold the North and South together, he 
was determined to see this railroad unite East and West.  And private 
companies joined the charge, racing one another to meet in the middle.  And 
eventually, a telephone operator -- a telegraph operator sent out a simple 
message to the cheers of a waiting nation.  The telegraph just said: 
“Done.”  Done.  Now, if he knew that we were still talking about it today, 
he might have come up with something more inspiring.

But overnight, the transcontinental railroad laid the way for a nationwide 
economy, not a bunch of local economies, but a nationwide economy.  
Suddenly, a cross-country trip was cut from months to days.  The cost to 
move goods and mail plummeted.  Cowboys drove cattle to railcars that 
whisked them back East.  Entrepreneurs could sell anything, anywhere.  
 
After the railroad was completed, a newspaper proclaimed: “We are the 
youngest of peoples.  But we are teaching the world to march forward.”  
Teaching the world to march forward.  
 
That’s who we are.  We are a nation that has always been built to compete.  
And that’s why, decades later, FDR set up the Rural Electrification 
Administration to help bring power to vast swaths of America that were 
still in darkness.  Companies said that building lines to rural areas would 
be too costly.  I mean, big cities already had electricity.  But they said, 
it’s too costly to go out into remote areas.  It’s too costly to come up 
into the Upper Peninsula.  
 
So Americans in these towns went without refrigeration or running water.  
If you wanted a glimpse of the larger world, your town might run a movie 
off a small diesel engine.  It might not even last the full film.  
 
Once power lines were laid down, electricity flowed to farms across the 
country, transforming millions of lives.  There’s a well-known story of a 
Texas family returning home the first night their farmhouse was hooked up, 
and a woman thought it was on fire.  And her daughter said, “No, Mama, the 
lights are on.”  Think about that.  That wasn’t that long ago, and 
government was there to help make sure that everybody -- everybody, not 
just some -- but everybody -- not just those who folks could make an 
immediate profit off of -- but everybody had access to electricity.
 
So years later, as our nation grew by leaps and bounds, we realized that a 
patchwork system of back roads and dirt paths couldn’t handle the biggest 
economy in the world.  So President Eisenhower helped make it possible to 
build an Interstate Highway System, and that, too, transformed the nation 
-- as much as the railways had.
 
And finally, we could ship goods and services to places that the railroads 
didn’t reach.  It meant that we could live apart from where we worked.  We 
could travel.  We could see America.

Each of these achievements -- none of them just happened.  We chose to do 
them.  We chose to do big things.  And every American benefited -- not just 
from new conveniences.  Not just from the jobs created by laying down new 
lines or tracks or pavement.  We benefited enormously from new economic 
growth -- from the scores of businesses that opened near each town’s new 
train station, or new power line, or new off-ramp.
 
So this is a new century, and we can’t expect tomorrow’s economy to take 
root using yesterday’s infrastructure.  We got to think about what’s the 
next thing, what’s the next big thing, and make sure that we’re at the 
forefront -- just like we were in the last century.
 
Today, new companies are going to seek out the fastest, most reliable ways 
to move people, goods and information, whether they are in Shanghai or in 
Chicago.  So if we want new jobs and businesses here in America, we’ve got 
to have the best transportation system and the best communication network 
in the world.  It’s like that movie, Field of Dreams:  If we build it, they 
will come  .  But we’ve 
got to build it.  We’ve got to build it.
 
Over the last two years, we’ve begun rebuilding for the 21st century.  This 
is a national project that has meant thousands of jobs for the hard-hit 
construction industry.  And I’ve now proposed redoubling these efforts.  We 
want to put more Americans to work repairing crumbling bridges and roads.  
Within 25 years, our goal is to have 80 percent of Americans with access to 
high-speed rail, which could allow you to go to places in half the time it 
takes by car.  Within five years, we want to make it possible for 
businesses to put high-speed wireless services in reach of virtually every 
American.
 
And that last part, high-speed wireless, is why I chose to come to Northern 
Michigan University today. Now let me give you some context.  Today, more 
than 90 percent of homes in South Korea subscribe to high-speed broadband.  
They just have better networks than we do.  In America, the nation that 
created the Internet -- by the way, because of government investment; it 
didn’t just happen by itself magically -- because of government R&D, we 
created the Internet, but yet only 65 percent of households here in America 
can say the same.  When it comes to high-speed Internet, the lights are 
still off in one-third of our households.  One out of every three 
households in America don’t have that same access.  For millions of 
Americans, the railway hasn’t showed up yet.
 
For our families and our businesses, high-speed wireless service, that’s 
the next train station; it’s the next off-ramp.  It’s how we’ll spark new 
innovation, new investment, new jobs.  
 
And you know this here in Northern Michigan.  That’s why I showed up, in 
addition to it being pretty and people being nice.  For decades now, this 
university has given a new laptop to every incoming student.  Wi-Fi 
stretched across campus.  But if you lived off-campus, like most students 
and teachers here, you were largely out of luck.  Broadband was often too 
expensive to afford.  And if you lived a bit further out of town, you were 
completely out of luck, because broadband providers, they often won’t build 
networks where it’s not profitable, just like they wouldn’t build 
electrical lines where it wasn’t profitable.
 
So this university tried something new.  You partnered with various 
companies to build a high-speed, next-generation wireless network.  And you 
managed to install it with six people in only four days without raising 
tuition.  Good job.  Good job, Mr. President.  By the way, if you give me 
the name of these six people -- there’s a whole bunch of stuff in 
Washington I’d like to see done in four days with six people.
 
So today, this is one of America’s most connected universities, and 
enrollment is near the highest it’s been in 30 years.
 
And what’s more -- and this is what makes this special -- you told nearby 
towns that if they allowed you to retrofit their towers with new equipment 
to expand your network, then their schools, their first responders, their 
city governments could use it too.  And as a result, police officers can 
access crime databases in their cars.  And firefighters can download 
blueprints on the way to a burning building.  And public works officials 
can save money by monitoring pumps and equipment remotely.  
 
And you’ve created new online learning opportunities for K-12 students as 
far as 30 miles away, some of whom -- some of whom can’t always make it to 
school in a place that averages 200 inches of snow a year. Now, some of 
these students don’t appreciate the end of school [snow] days.  I know 
Malia and Sasha get really excited about school [snow] days.  Of course, in 
Washington things shut down when there’s an inch of snow. But this 
technology is giving them more opportunity.  It’s good for their education, 
it’s good for our economy.  In fact, I just came from a demonstration of 
online learning in action.  We were with Professor Lubig and he had plugged 
in Negaunee High School -- and Powell Township School in Big Bay.  So I 
felt like the guy in Star Trek.  I was being beamed around -- across the 
Upper Peninsula here.  But it was remarkable to see the possibilities for 
these young people who are able to, let’s say, do a chemistry experiment, 
and they can compare the results with kids in Boston.
 
Or if there’s some learning tool or material they don’t have immediately 
accessible in their school, they can connect here to the university, and 
they’re able to tap into it.

It’s opening up an entire world to them.  And one of the young people who I 
was talking to, he talked about foreign policy and what we were seeing in 
places like Egyptian.  And he said, what’s amazing especially for us is 
that now we have a window to the entire world, and we can start 
understanding other cultures and other places in ways that we could never 
do without this technology.
 
For local businesses, broadband access is helping them grow and prosper and 
compete in a global economy.  In fact, Marquette has been rated one of the 
top five “eCities” in Michigan for entrepreneurship.  That’s right.
 
So here’s a great example, Getz’s Clothiers. The Getzes are here.  Where 
are the Getzes?  They’re around here somewhere.  There they are right 
there.

This is a third-generation, family-owned, Marquette institution.  They’ve 
occupied the same downtown store for more than a century -- but with the 
help of broadband, they were recently listed as one of America’s 5,000 
fastest-growing companies.  Now how did they pull that off?
 
Obviously they’ve got great products, great service.  But what’s also true 
is online sales now make up more than two-thirds of their annual revenue.  
Think about that.  You got a downtown department store; now two-thirds of 
its sales are online.  It can process more than 1,000 orders a day, and its 
workforce has more than doubled.  So you’ve got a local business with a 
global footprint because of technology.
 
Now, if you can do this in snowy U.P. -- we can do it all across America.  
In fact, many places already are.  So in Wagner, South Dakota, patients can 
receive high-quality, lifesaving medical care from a Sioux Falls specialist 
who can monitor their EKG and listen to their breathing -- from 100 miles 
away.  In Ten Sleep, Wyoming
 -- I love the name of 
that town, Ten Sleep -- it’s a town in Wyoming of 300 people.  A 
fiber-optic network allowed a company to employ several hundred teachers 
who teach English to students in Asia over the Internet, 24 hours a day.  
You’ve all heard about outsourcing.  Well, this is “insourcing” -- where 
overseas work is done right here in the United States of America.

So we want to multiply these stories -- we want to multiply your story -- 
all over the country.  We want to invest in the next generation of 
high-speed wireless coverage for 98 percent of Americans.
 
This isn’t just about faster Internet or being able to find a friend on 
Facebook.  It’s about connecting every corner of America to the digital 
age.  It’s about a rural community in Iowa or Alabama where farmers can 
monitor weather across the state and market across the globe.  It’s about 
an entrepreneur on Main Street with a great idea she hopes to sell to the 
big city.  It’s about every young person who no longer has to leave his 
hometown to seek new opportunity -- because opportunity is right there at 
his or her fingertips.

So to make this happen, we’re going to invest in research and development 
of emerging technologies and applications.  We’re going to accelerate 
breakthroughs in health and education and transportation, and deploy a new 
nationwide, interoperable wireless network for first responders -- making 
sure they’ve got the funding and the frequencies that they were promised 
and that they need to keep us safe.  It’s important.  By selling private 
companies the rights to these airwaves, we won’t just encourage private 
investment and expand wireless access; we’re actually going to bring in 
revenues that lower our deficits.

Now, access to high-speed Internet by itself won’t make a business more 
successful, or a student smarter, or a citizen more informed.  That takes 
hard work.  It takes those late nights.  It takes hustle.  It takes that 
quintessentially American drive to be the best.  That’s what’s the most 
important ingredient for our success.
 
But we’ve always believed that we have a responsibility to guarantee all 
our people every tool necessary for them to meet their full potential.  So 
if they’re willing to work hard, they can succeed.  And in a 21st-century 
economy, that has never been more important.  Every American deserves 
access to the world’s information.  Every American deserves access to the 
global economy.  We have promised this for 15 years.  It’s time we 
delivered on that promise. It’s time we delivered on that promise.
 
So connecting our people.  Competing with the rest of the world.  Living 
within our means without sacrificing what’s required to win the future.  We 
can do all this because we’ve done it before.
 
In 1960, at the height of his presidential campaign, JFK came to Michigan.  
And it was a moment similar to this one. Other nations were doing their 
best to try to take our place at the top.  And here in Michigan, he made it 
clear that if we wanted to keep from being knocked off our perch, there 
could only be one goal for the United States.  It could be summed up in one 
word: “first.”  First.

“I do not mean first, but,” he said.  “I don’t mean first, when.  I don’t 
mean first, if.  I mean first -- period.”  And “The real question now,” he 
continued, “The real question,” he continued, “is whether we’re up to the 
task -- whether each and every one of us is willing to face the facts, to 
bear the burdens, to provide the risks, and to meet our dangers.”  That was 
50 years ago.  But things haven’t changed in terms of what’s required to 
succeed.
 
And we were up to the task then.  I believe we’re up to the task today.  
Time and again, whether westward or skyward, with each rail and road that 
we’ve laid, in every community, we’ve connected with our own science and 
imagination, and we forged anew our faith that we can do anything.  We do 
big things.  That’s who we are.  And that’s who we’re going to have to be 
again -- a young nation that teaches the world to march forward.
 
That’s what you’re doing up here in U.P.  That’s what you’re doing here at 
Northern Michigan University.  That’s what we’re all going to do together 
in the months and years to come.
 
Thank you.  God bless you.  God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.