 

 

Barack Obama

Address on Latin American to the People of Chile

delivered 21 March 2011, Santiago, Chile

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 click 
for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Muchas gracias.  Thank you so much.  Thank you.  Thank you so much.  Thank 
you.  Thank you.  Please, please, everyone be seated.

Thank you.  Buenas tardes.  It is a wonderful honor to be here in Santiago, 
Chile.  And I want to, first of all, thank your President, President 
Pinera, for his outstanding leadership and the hospitality that he’s 
extended not only to me but also to my wife, my daughters, and, most 
importantly, my mother-in-law.

To the people of Santiago, to the people of Chile, thank you so much for 
your wonderful welcome.  And on behalf of the people of the United States, 
let me thank you for your friendship and the strong bonds between our 
people.

There are several people that I just want to acknowledge very briefly.  We 
have the President of the Inter-American Development Bank, Luis Alberto 
Moreno, who is here. We also have Alicia Bárcena, who is the Executive 
Secretary of the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean.

Throughout our history, this land has been called “el fin de la tierra” -- 
the end of the world.  But I’ve come here today because in the 21st century 
this nation is a vital part of our interconnected world.  In an age when 
peoples are intertwined like never before, Chile shows that we need not be 
divided by race or religion or ethnic conflict.  You’ve welcomed immigrants 
from every corner of the globe, even as you celebrate a proud indigenous 
heritage.

At a time when people around the world are reaching for their freedoms, 
Chile shows that, yes, it is possible to transition from dictatorship to 
democracy -- and to do so peacefully.  Indeed, our marvelous surroundings 
today, just steps from where Chile lost its democracy decades ago, is a 
testament to Chile’s progress and its undying democratic spirit.

Despite barriers of distance and geography, you’ve integrated Chile into 
the global economy, trading with countries all over the world and, in this 
Internet age, becoming the most digitally connected country in Latin 
America.

And in a world of sometimes wrenching pain -- as we’re seeing today in 
Japan -- it is the character of this country that inspires.  “Our original 
guiding stars,” said Pablo Neruda, “are struggle and hope.”  But, he added, 
“there is no such thing as a lone struggle, no such thing as a lone hope.”  
The Chilean people have shown this time and again, including your recovery 
from the terrible earthquake here one year ago.

Credit for Chile’s success belongs to the Chilean people, whose courage, 
sacrifices and perseverance built this nation into the leader that it is.  
And we are very honored to be joined today by four leaders who have guided 
this nation through years of great progress -- Presidents Aylwin, Frei, 
Lagos, and of course your current President Pinera.  Thank you all, to the 
former Presidents, for being here, as well as President Pinera.

So I could not imagine a more fitting place to discuss the new era of 
partnership that the United States is pursuing not only with Chile, but 
across the Americas.  And I’m grateful that we’re joined by leaders and 
members of the diplomatic corps from across the region.

Within my first 100 days in office, one of my first foreign trips as 
President, I traveled to Trinidad and Tobago to meet with leaders from 
across the hemisphere at the Summit of the Americas.  And there, I pledged 
to seek partnerships of equality and shared responsibility, based on mutual 
interest and mutual respect, but also on shared values.

Now, I know I’m not the first president from the United States to pledge a 
new spirit of partnership with our Latin American neighbors.  Words are 
easy, and I know that there have been times where perhaps the United States 
took this region for granted.

Even now, I know our headlines are often dominated by events in other parts 
of the world.  But let’s never forget:  Every day, the future is being 
forged by the countries and peoples of Latin America.  For Latin America is 
not the old stereotype of a region of -- in perpetual conflict or trapped 
in endless cycles of poverty.  The world must now recognize Latin America 
for the dynamic and growing region that it truly is.
     
Latin America is at peace.  Civil wars have ended.  Insurgencies have been 
pushed back.  Old border disputes have been resolved.  In Colombia, great 
sacrifices by citizens and security forces have restored a level of 
security not seen in decades.

And just as old conflicts have receded, so too have the ideological battles 
that often fueled them -- the old stale debates between state-run economies 
and unbridled capitalism; between the abuses of right-wing paramilitaries 
and left-wing insurgents; between those who believe that the United States 
causes all the region’s problems and those who believe that the United 
States ignores all the problems.  Those are false choices, and they don’t 
reflect today’s realities.

Today, Latin America is democratic.  Virtually all the people of Latin 
America have gone from living under dictatorships to living in democracies. 
 Across the region, we see vibrant democracies, from Mexico to Chile to 
Costa Rica.  We’ve seen historic peaceful transfers of power, from El 
Salvador to Uruguay to Paraguay.  The work of perfecting our democracies, 
of course, is never truly done, but this is the outstanding progress that’s 
been made here in the Americas.

Today, Latin America is growing.   Having made tough but necessary reforms, 
nations like Peru and Brazil are seeing impressive growth.  As a result, 
Latin America weathered the global economic downturn better than other 
regions.  Across the region, tens of millions of people have been lifted 
from extreme poverty.  From Guadalajara to Santiago to Sao Paolo, a new 
middle class is demanding more of themselves and more of their governments.

Latin America is coming together to address shared challenges.  Chile, 
Colombia and Mexico are sharing their expertise in security with nations in 
Central America.  When a coup in Honduras threatened democratic progress, 
the nations of the hemisphere unanimously invoked the Inter-American 
Democratic Charter, helping to lay the foundation for the return to the 
rule of law.  The contributions of Latin American countries have been 
critical in Haiti, as has Latin American diplomacy in the lead up to 
yesterday’s election in Haiti.

And increasingly, Latin America is contributing to global prosperity and 
security.  As longtime contributors to United Nations peacekeeping 
missions, Latin American nations have helped to prevent conflicts from 
Africa to Asia.  At the G20, nations like Mexico, Brazil, Argentina now 
have a greater voice in global economic decision-making.  Under Mexican 
leadership, the world made progress at Cancun in our efforts to combat 
climate change.  Nations like Chile have played a leading role in 
strengthening civil society groups around the world.

So this is the Latin America that I see today -- a region on the move, 
proud of its progress, and ready to assume a greater role in world affairs. 
 And for all these reasons, I believe that Latin America is more important 
to the prosperity and security of the United States than ever before.  With 
no other region does the United States have so many connections.  And 
nowhere do we see that more than in the tens of millions of Hispanic 
Americans across the United States, who enrich our society, grow our 
economy and strengthen our nation every single day.

And I believe Latin America is only going to become more important to the 
United States, especially to our economy.  Trade between the United States 
and Latin America has surged.  We buy more of your products, more of your 
goods than any other country, and we invest more in this region than any 
other country.

For instance, we export more than three times as much to Latin America as 
we do to China.  Our exports to this region -- which are growing faster 
than our exports to the rest of the world -- will soon support more than 2 
million U.S. jobs.  In other words, when Latin America is more prosperous, 
the United States is more prosperous.

But even more than interests, we’re bound by shared values.  In each 
other’s journey we see reflections of our own.  Colonists who broke free 
from empires.  Pioneers who opened new frontiers.  Citizens who have 
struggled to expand our nations’ promise to all people -- men and women, 
white, black and brown.  We’re people of faith who must remember that all 
of us -- especially the most fortunate among us -- must do our part, 
especially for the least among us.  We’re citizens who know that ensuring 
that democracies deliver for our people must be the work of all.

This is our common history.  This is our common heritage.  We are all 
Americans.  Todos somos Americanos.

Across the Americas, parents want their children to be able to run and play 
and know that they’ll come home safely.  Young people all desperately want 
an education.  Fathers want the dignity that comes from work, and women 
want the same opportunities as their husbands.  Entrepreneurs want the 
chance to start that new business.  And people everywhere want to be 
treated with the respect to which every human being is entitled.  These are 
the hopes -- simple yet profound -- that beat in the hearts of millions 
across the Americas.

But if we’re honest, we’ll also admit that that these dreams are still 
beyond the reach of too many; that progress in the Americas has not come 
fast enough.  Not for the millions who endure the injustice of extreme 
poverty.  Not for the children in shantytowns and the favelas who just want 
the same chance as everybody else.  Not for the communities that are caught 
in the brutal grips of cartels and gangs, where the police are outgunned 
and too many people live in fear.

And despite this region’s democratic progress, stark inequalities endure.  
In political and economic power that is too often concentrated in the hands 
of the few, instead of serving the many.  In the corruption that too often 
still stifles economic growth and development, innovation and 
entrepreneurship.  And in some leaders who cling to bankrupt ideologies to 
justify their own power and who seek to silence their opponents because 
those opponents have the audacity to demand their universal rights.  These, 
too, are realities that we must face.

Of course, we are not the first generation to face these challenges.  Fifty 
years ago this month, President John F. Kennedy proposed an ambitious 
Alliance for Progress.  It was, even by today’s standards, a massive 
investment -- billions of U.S. dollars to meet the basic needs of people 
across the region.  Such a program was right -- it was appropriate for that 
era.  But the realities of our time -- and the new capabilities and 
confidence of Latin America -- demand something different.

President Kennedy’s challenge endures -- “to build a hemisphere where all 
people can hope for a sustainable, suitable standard of living, and all can 
live out their lives in dignity and in freedom.”  But half a century later, 
we must give meaning to this work in our own way, in a new way.

I believe that in the Americas today, there are no senior partners and 
there are no junior partners, there are only equal partners.  Of course, 
equal partnerships, in turn, demands a sense of shared responsibility.  We 
have obligations to each other.  And today, the United States is working 
with the nations of this hemisphere to meet our responsibilities in several 
key areas.

First, we’re partnering to address the concerns that people across the 
Americas say they worry about the most -- and that's the security of their 
families and communities.  Criminal gangs and narco-traffickers are not 
only a threat to the security of our citizens.  They’re a threat to 
development, because they scare away investment that economies need to 
prosper.  And they are a direct threat to democracy, because they fuel the 
corruption that rots institutions from within.

So with our partners from Colombia to Mexico and new regional initiatives 
in Central America and the Caribbean, we’re confronting this challenge, 
together, from every direction.  We’ve increased our support -- the 
equipment, training and technologies -- that security forces, border 
security and police need to keep communities safe.  We’re improving 
coordination and sharing more information so that those who traffic in 
drugs and in human beings have fewer places to hide.  And we’re putting 
unprecedented pressure on cartel finances, including in the United States.

But we’ll never break the grip of the cartels and the gangs unless we also 
address the social and economic forces that fuel criminality.  We need to 
reach at-risk youth before they turn to drugs and crime.  So we’re joining 
with partners across the Americas to expand community-based policing, 
strengthen juvenile justice systems, and invest in crime and drug 
prevention programs.

As the nations of Central American develop a new regional security 
strategy, the United States stands ready to do our part through a new 
partnership that puts the focus where it should be -- on the security of 
citizens.  And with regional and international partners, we’ll make sure 
our support is not just well-intentioned, but is well-coordinated and 
well-spent.   

I’ve said before and I will repeat, as President I’ve made it clear that 
the United States shares and accepts our share of responsibility for drug 
violence.  After all, the demand for drugs, including in the United States, 
drives this crisis.  And that’s why we’ve developed a new drug control 
strategy that focused on reducing the demand for drugs through education 
and prevention and treatment.   And I would point out that even during 
difficult fiscal times in the United States, we’ve proposed increasing our 
commitment to these efforts by some $10 billion this year alone.

We’re also doing more to stem the southbound flow of guns into the region.  
We’re screening all southbound rail cargo.  We’re seizing many more guns 
bound for Mexico and we’re putting more gunrunners behind bars.  And every 
gun or gunrunner that we take off the streets is one less threat to the 
families and communities of the Americas.

As we work to ensure the security of our citizens, we’re partnering in a 
second area -- and that's promoting prosperity and opportunity.  I’ve been 
so impressed with President Pinera’s pledge to lift everyone out of extreme 
poverty by 2020.  That's an ambitious goal and an appropriate goal.  And 
with this trip, I’m working to expand some of the trade and investment that 
might help achieve this goal.

Across the region, we’re moving ahead with “open skies” agreements to bring 
our people and businesses closer together.  We’re moving forward with our 
Trans-Pacific Partnership -- which includes Chile and Peru -- to create new 
trade opportunities in the fast-growing markets of the Asia-Pacific.  And 
as I’ve directed, my administration has intensified our efforts to move 
forward on trade agreements with Panama and Colombia, consistent with our 
values and with our interests.

We’re also encouraging the next generation of businesses and entrepreneurs. 
 So we’ll work with the Inter-American Development bank to increase 
lending.  We’ve expanded credit under a new Microfinance Growth Fund for 
the Americas.  We’re supporting reforms to tax systems, which are critical 
for economic growth and public investment.  We’re creating new “Pathways to 
Prosperity” -- microcredit, entrepreneurship training -- for those who must 
share in economic growth, including women and members of Afro-Caribbean and 
indigenous communities.

And we’re coming together, as a hemisphere, to create clean energy jobs and 
pursue more secure and sustainable energy futures.  And if anybody doubts 
the urgency of climate change, they look -- they should look no further 
than the Americas -- from the stronger storms in the Caribbean, to glacier 
melt in the Andes, to the loss of forests and farmland across the region.

Under the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas that I proposed, 
countries have stepped forward, each providing leadership and expertise.  
Brazil has expertise in biofuels.  Chile in geothermal.  Mexico on energy 
efficiency.  El Salvador is connecting grids in Central America to make 
electricity more reliable.  These are exactly the kind of partnerships that 
we need -- neighbors joining with neighbors to unleash the progress that 
none of us can achieve alone.

It’s the same philosophy behind two additional initiatives that I’m 
announcing today, which will help our countries educate and innovate for 
the future.  First, we’re launching a new initiative to harness the power 
of social media and online networks to help students, scientists, academics 
and entrepreneurs collaborate and develop the new ideas and products that 
will keep America -- the Americas competitive in a global economy.

And I’m proud to announce that the United States will work with partners in 
this region, including the private sector, to increase the number of U.S. 
students studying in Latin America to 100,000, and the number of Latin 
America students studying in the United States to 100,000.

Staying competitive also, of course, demands that we address immigration -- 
an issue that evokes great passions in the United States as well as in the 
Americas.  As President, I’ve made it clear that immigration strengthens 
the United States.  We are a nation of immigrants, which is why I have 
consistently spoken out against anti-immigrant sentiment.  We’re also a 
nation of laws, which is why I will not waver in my determination to fix 
our broken immigration system.  I’m committed to comprehensive reform that 
secures our borders, enforces our laws and addresses the millions of 
undocumented workers who are living in the shadows of the United States.

I believe, though, that this challenge will be with us for a very long time 
so long as people believe that the only way to provide for their families 
is to leave their families and head north.

And that’s why the United States has to continue to partner with countries 
that pursue the broad-based economic growth that gives people and nations a 
path out of poverty.  And that’s what we’re seeing here in Chile.  As part 
of our new approach to development, we’re working with partners, like 
Guatemala and El Salvador, who are committed to building their own capacity 
-- from helping farmers improve crop yields to helping health care systems 
to deliver better care.

Which leads me to the final area where we must continue to partner, and 
that’s strengthening democracy and human rights.  More than 60 years ago, 
our nations came together in an Organization of American States and 
declared -- and I quote -- that “representative democracy is an 
indispensable condition for the stability, peace and development of the 
region.”  A decade ago, we reaffirmed this principle, with an 
Inter-American Democratic Charter that stated -- and I quote -- “the people 
of the Americas have a right to democracy and their governments have an 
obligation to promote and defend it.”

Across the Americas, generations, including generations of Chileans, have 
struggled and sacrificed to give meaning to these words -- ordinary men and 
women who dared to speak their mind; activists who organized new movements; 
faith leaders who preached social justice; the mothers of the disappeared 
who demanded the truth; political prisoners who rose to become presidents; 
and, even now, Las Damas de Blanco, who march in quiet dignity.

The people of the Americas have shown that there is no substitute for 
democracy.  As governments, we have then an obligation to defend what has 
been won.  So as we mark the 10th anniversary of the Inter-American 
Democratic Charter this year, let’s reaffirm the principles that we know to 
be true.

Let’s recommit to defending democracy and human rights in our own countries 
by strengthening the institutions that democracy needs to flourish -- free 
and fair elections in which people choose their own leaders; vibrant 
legislatures that provide oversight; independent judiciaries that uphold 
the rule of law; a free press that promotes open debate; professional 
militaries under civilian control; strong civil societies that hold 
governments accountable; and governments that are transparent and 
responsive to their citizens.  This is what makes a democracy.

And just as we defend democracy and human rights within our borders, let’s 
recommit to defending them across our hemisphere.  I understand, every 
nation will follow its own path.  No nation should impose its will on 
another.  But surely we can agree that democracy is about more than 
majority rule, that simply holding power does not give a leader the right 
to suppress the rights of others, and that leaders must maintain power 
through consent, and not coercion.  We have to speak out when we see those 
principles violated.

Let’s never waver in our support for the rights of people to determine 
their own future -- and, yes, that includes the people of Cuba.  Since 
taking office, I’ve announced the most significant changes to my nation’s 
policy towards Cuba in decades.  I’ve made it possible for Cuban Americans 
to visit and support their families in Cuba.  We’re allowing Americans to 
send remittances that bring some economic hope for people across Cuba, as 
well as more independence from Cuban authorities.

Going forward, we’ll continue to seek ways to increase the independence of 
the Cuban people, who I believe are entitled to the same freedom and 
liberty as everyone else in this hemisphere.  I will make this effort to 
try to break out of this history that’s now lasted for longer than I’ve 
been alive.

But Cuban authorities must take some meaningful actions to respect the 
basic rights of their own people -- not because the United States insists 
upon it, but because the people of Cuba deserve it, no less than the people 
of the United States or Chile or Brazil or any other country deserve it.

The lessons of Latin America, I believe, can be a guide -- a guide for 
people around the world who are beginning their own journeys toward 
democracy.  There is no one model for democratic transitions.  But as this 
region knows, successful transitions do have certain ingredients.  The 
moral force of nonviolence.  Dialogue that’s open and inclusive.  The 
protection of basic rights, such as peaceful expression and assembly.  
Accountability for past wrongs.  And matching political reform with 
economic reform, because democracy must meet the basic needs and 
aspirations of people.

With decades of experience, there’s so much Latin America can now share -- 
how to build political parties and organize free elections; how to ensure 
peaceful transfers of power; how to navigate the winding paths of reform 
and reconciliation.  And when the inevitable setbacks occur, you can remind 
people to never lose sight of those guiding stars of which Pablo Neruda 
spoke -- struggle, but also hope.  

Security for our citizens.  Trade and development that creates jobs, 
prosperity and a clean energy future.  Standing up for democracy and human 
rights.  These are the partnerships that we can forge together -- here in 
the Americas but also around the world.  And if anyone doubts whether this 
region has the capacity to meet these challenges, they need to only 
remember what happened here in Chile only a few months ago.

Their resolve and faith inspired the world -- “Los Treinta y Tres.”  I 
don’t need to tell you the story.  You know it well.  But it’s worth 
remembering how this entire nation came together, across government, 
civilian and military, national and local; across the private sector, with 
large companies and small shopkeepers donating supplies; and across every 
segment of Chilean society, people came together to sustain those men down 
below and their families up at Camp Esperanza.  It was a miraculous rescue. 
 It was a tribute to Chilean leadership.  And when, finally, Luis Urzua 
emerged, he spoke for an entire nation when he said, “I am proud to be 
Chilean.”

Yet something else happened in those two months.  The people and 
governments of Latin America came together to stand with a neighbor in 
need.  And with a Latin American country in the lead, the world was proud 
to play a supporting role -- sending workers from the United States and 
Canada, rescue equipment from Europe, communications gear from Asia.  And 
as the miners were lifted to safety, for those joyous reunions, it was a 
truly global movement, watched and celebrated by more than a billion 
people.

If ever we needed a reminder of the humanity and the hopes that we share, 
that moment in the desert was such.  When a country like Chile puts its 
mind to it, there’s nothing you can’t do.  When countries across Latin 
America come together and focus on a common goal, when the United States 
and others in the world do our part, there’s nothing we can’t accomplish 
together.

And that is our vision of the Americas.  This is the progress we can 
achieve together.  This is the spirit of partnership and equality to which 
the United States is committed.  I am confident that, working together, 
there is nothing we cannot achieve.  Thank you very much.  Muchas gracias.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.