 

 

Barack Obama

Speech at Memorial for Joplin Tornado Victims

delivered 29 May 2011, Missouri Southern University, Joplin Missouri

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

President Obama: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you! Thank you so much. 
Please, please be seated.

Audience Member: I love you, Obama!

President Obama: Oh, I love Joplin! I love Joplin.

President Obama: To --

Audience Member: We love Joplin!

President Obama: We love Joplin.

Thank you, Governor, for that powerful message, but more importantly, for 
being here with and for your people every step of the way.

We are grateful to you, to Reverend Gariss, Father Monaghan. I’m so glad 
you got in that tub. To Reverend Brown for that incredibly powerful 
message.

To Senator Claire McCaskill, who’s been here, and Congressman Billy Long; 
Mayor Woolston. To Craig Fugate. It doesn’t get a lot of attention, but he 
heads up FEMA, our emergency response at the federal level. He’s been going 
from Tuscaloosa to Joplin and everywhere in between tirelessly doing 
outstanding work. We’re grateful for him. Gail McGovern, the President of 
the National Red Cross, which has contributed mightily to the rebuilding 
efforts here.

Most of all, to the family and friends of all those who’ve been lost and 
all those who’ve been affected.

Today we gather to celebrate the lives of those we’ve lost to the storms 
here in Joplin and across the Midwest, to keep in our prayers those still 
missing, to mourn with their families, to stand together during this time 
of pain and trial.

And as Reverend Brown alluded to, the question that weighs on us at a time 
like this is: Why? Why our town? Why our home? Why my son, or husband, or 
wife, or sister, or friend? Why?

We do not have the capacity to answer. We can’t know when a terrible storm 
will strike, or where, or the severity of the devastation that it may 
cause. We can’t know why we’re tested with the loss of a loved one, or the 
loss of a home where we’ve lived a lifetime.

These things are beyond our power to control. But that does not mean we are 
powerless in the face of adversity. How we respond when the storm strikes 
is up to us. How we live in the aftermath of tragedy and heartache, that’s 
within our control. And it’s in these moments, through our actions, that we 
often see the glimpse of what makes life worth living in the first place.

In the last week, that’s what Joplin has not just taught Missouri, not just 
taught America, but has taught the world. I was overseas in the aftermath 
of the storm, and had world leaders coming up to me saying, let the people 
of Joplin know we are with them; we’re thinking about them; we love them.

Because the world saw how Joplin responded. A university turned itself into 
a makeshift hospital. Some of you used your pickup trucks as ambulances, 
carrying the injured -- on doors that served as stretchers. Your 
restaurants have rushed food to people in need. Businesses have filled 
trucks with donations. You’ve waited in line for hours to donate blood to 
people you know, but also to people you’ve never met.  And in all this, you 
have lived the words of Scripture:

    We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed;
    we are perplexed, but not in despair;
    Persecuted, but not forsaken;
    cast down, but not destroyed....

As the governor said, you have shown the world what it means to love thy 
neighbor. You’ve banded together. You’ve come to each other’s aid. You’ve 
demonstrated a simple truth: that amid heartbreak and tragedy, no one is a 
stranger. Everybody is a brother. Everybody is a sister. We can all love 
one another.

As you move forward in the days ahead, I know that rebuilding what you’ve 
lost won’t be easy. I just walked through some of the neighborhoods that 
have been affected, and you look out at the landscape, and there have to be 
moments where you just say, where to begin? How to start? There are going 
to be moments where after the shock has worn off, you feel alone. But 
there’s no doubt in my mind what the people of this community can do. 
There’s no doubt in my mind that Joplin will rebuild.  And as President, I 
can promise you your country will be there with you every single step of 
the way. We will be with you every step of the way. We’re not going 
anywhere. The cameras may leave. The spotlight may shift. But we will be 
with you every step of the way until Joplin is restored and this community 
is back on its feet. We’re not going anywhere.

That is not just my promise; that’s America’s promise. It’s a promise I 
make here in Joplin; it’s a promise I made down in Tuscaloosa, or in any of 
the communities that have been hit by these devastating storms over the 
last few weeks.

Now, there have been countless acts of kindness and selflessness in recent 
days.  We’ve already heard the record of some of that. But perhaps none are 
as inspiring as what took place when the storm was bearing down on Joplin, 
threatening an entire community with utter destruction. And in the face of 
winds that showed no mercy, no regard for human life, that did not 
discriminate by race or faith or background, it was ordinary people, 
swiftly tested, who said, “I’m willing to die right now so that someone 
else might live.”

It was the husband who threw himself over his wife as their house came 
apart around them.  It was the mother who shielded her young son.
 
It was Dean Wells, a husband and father who loved to sing and whistle in 
his church choir. Dean was working a shift at the Home Depot, managing the 
electrical department, when the siren rang out. He sprang into action, 
moving people to safety. Over and over again, he went back for others, 
until a wall came down on top of him.  In the end, most of the building was 
destroyed, but not where Dean had directed his coworkers and his customers.
 
There was a young man named Christopher Lucas who was 26 years old. Father 
of two daughters; third daughter on the way. Just like any other night, 
Christopher was doing his job as manager on duty at Pizza Hut. And then he 
heard the storm coming.

It was then when this former sailor quickly ushered everybody into the 
walk-in freezer. The only problem was, the freezer door wouldn’t stay 
closed from the inside. So as the tornado bore down on this small 
storefront on Range Line Road, Christopher left the freezer to find a rope 
or a cord or anything to hold the door shut. He made it back just in time, 
tying a piece of bungee cord to the handle outside, wrapping the other end 
around his arm, holding the door closed with all his might. 
 
And Christopher held it as long as he could, until he was pulled away by 
the incredible force of the storm. He died saving more than a dozen people 
in that freezer.

You see, there are heroes all around us, all the time. They walk by us on 
the sidewalk, and they sit next to us in class. They pass us in the aisle 
wearing an orange apron. They come to our table at a restaurant and ask us 
what we’d like to order.

Just as we can’t know why tragedy strikes in the first place, we may never 
fully understand where these men and women find the courage and strength to 
do what they did. What we do know is that in a split-second moment where 
there’s little time for internal reflection or debate, the actions of these 
individuals were driven by love -- love for a family member, love for a 
friend, or just love for a fellow human being.

That’s good to know. In a world that can be cruel and selfish, it’s this 
knowledge -- the knowledge that we are inclined to love one another, that 
we’re inclined to do good, to be good -- that causes us to take heart. We 
see with fresh eyes what’s precious and so fragile and so important to us. 
We put aside our petty grievances and our minor disagreements. We see 
ourselves in the hopes and hardships of others. And in the stories of 
people like Dean and people like Christopher, we remember that each us 
contains reserves of resolve and compassion. There are heroes all around 
us, all the time.

And so, in the wake of this tragedy, let us live up to their example -- to 
make each day count -- to live with the sense of mutual regard -- to live 
with that same compassion that they demonstrated in their final hours. We 
are called by them to do everything we can to be worthy of the chance that 
we’ve been given to carry on.

I understand that at a memorial yesterday for Dean, his wife decided to 
play a recording of Dean whistling a song he loved -- Amazing Grace. The 
lyrics are a fitting tribute to what Joplin has been through.

    Through many dangers, toils and snares
    I have already come;
    'Tis Grace that brought me safe thus far
    and Grace will lead me home…

    Yea, when this flesh and heart shall fail,
    And mortal life shall cease,
    I shall possess within the veil,
    A life of joy and peace.

May those we’ve lost know peace, and may Grace guide the people of Joplin 
home.

God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.