 

 

Barack Obama

Address on Libya: The Violence Must Stop

delivered 23 February 2011

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody.  Secretary Clinton and I just concluded a 
meeting that focused on the ongoing situation in Libya.  Over the last few 
days, my national security team has been working around the clock to 
monitor the situation there and to coordinate with our international 
partners about a way forward.

First, we are doing everything we can to protect American citizens.  That 
is my highest priority.  In Libya, we've urged our people to leave the 
country and the State Department is assisting those in need of support.  
Meanwhile, I think all Americans should give thanks to the heroic work 
that's being done by our foreign service officers and the men and women 
serving in our embassies and consulates around the world.  They represent 
the very best of our country and its values.

Now, throughout this period of unrest and upheaval across the region the 
United States has maintained a set of core principles which guide our 
approach.  These principles apply to the situation in Libya.  As I said 
last week, we strongly condemn the use of violence in Libya.

The American people extend our deepest condolences to the families and 
loved ones of all who’ve been killed and injured.  The suffering and 
bloodshed is outrageous and it is unacceptable. So are threats and orders 
to shoot peaceful protesters and further punish the people of Libya.  These 
actions violate international norms and every standard of common decency.  
This violence must stop.

The United States also strongly supports the universal rights of the Libyan 
people.  That includes the rights of peaceful assembly, free speech, and 
the ability of the Libyan people to determine their own destiny.  These are 
human rights.  They are not negotiable.  They must be respected in every 
country.  And they cannot be denied through violence or suppression.

In a volatile situation like this one, it is imperative that the nations 
and peoples of the world speak with one voice, and that has been our focus. 
 Yesterday a unanimous U.N. Security Council sent a clear message that it 
condemns the violence in Libya, supports accountability for the 
perpetrators, and stands with the Libyan people.

This same message, by the way, has been delivered by the European Union, 
the Arab League, the African Union, the Organization of the Islamic 
Conference, and many individual nations.  North and south, east and west, 
voices are being raised together to oppose suppression and support the 
rights of the Libyan people.

I’ve also asked my administration to prepare the full range of options that 
we have to respond to this crisis.  This includes those actions we may take 
and those we will coordinate with our allies and partners, or those that 
we’ll carry out through multilateral institutions.

Like all governments, the Libyan government has a responsibility to refrain 
from violence, to allow humanitarian assistance to reach those in need, and 
to respect the rights of its people.  It must be held accountable for its 
failure to meet those responsibilities, and face the cost of continued 
violations of human rights.

This is not simply a concern of the United States.  The entire world is 
watching, and we will coordinate our assistance and accountability measures 
with the international community.  To that end, Secretary Clinton and I 
have asked Bill Burns, our Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, 
to make several stops in Europe and the region to intensify our 
consultations with allies and partners about the situation in Libya.

I’ve also asked Secretary Clinton to travel to Geneva on Monday, where a 
number of foreign ministers will convene for a session of the Human Rights 
Council.  There she’ll hold consultations with her counterparts on events 
throughout the region and continue to ensure that we join with the 
international community to speak with one voice to the government and the 
people of Libya.

And even as we are focused on the urgent situation in Libya, let me just 
say that our efforts continue to address the events taking place elsewhere, 
including how the international community can most effectively support the 
peaceful transition to democracy in both Tunisia and in Egypt.

So let me be clear.  The change that is taking place across the region is 
being driven by the people of the region.  This change doesn’t represent 
the work of the United States or any foreign power.  It represents the 
aspirations of people who are seeking a better life.

As one Libyan said, “We just want to be able to live like human beings.”  
We just want to be able to live like human beings.  It is the most basic of 
aspirations that is driving this change.  And throughout this time of 
transition, the United States will continue to stand up for freedom, stand 
up for justice, and stand up for the dignity of all people.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image (Samantha Appleton) Source: WhiteHouse.gov


Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.