 

 

Barack Obama

Tribal Nations Conference Address

delivered 2 December 2011, Department of Interior, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you so much.  Thank you. Everybody please have a seat.  It is 
wonderful to see all of you. Thank you, Phyllis, for the wonderful 
introduction. 

I want to thank all the tribal leaders who are here for making this year’s 
conference the most successful yet.  I want to acknowledge outstanding 
members of my team that have helped pull this together, but, more 
importantly, day in and day out are thinking about what we can do to make 
sure that all the tribes that are represented have a voice here in 
Washington.

First of all, my outstanding Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar.  We 
are so proud of him.  Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Larry Echo 
Hawk.  Hey! And our outstanding solicitor for the Department of Interior, 
Hilary Tompkins.

Now, today, I’m here not only as President.  As I’ve mentioned before, I am 
also here as an adopted member of the Crow Nation.  So I’d like to 
recognize my adoptive Mom and Dad, Sonny and Mary Black Eagle, who are 
backstage.  They’re going to be coming out here in a little bit.  I’m so 
grateful they took me into their family.  I bet they’re grateful that I 
never went through the “terrible twos” -- or “terrible teens.”  They got me 
after I was a little more polished.

Ken Salazar, he works so hard on the issues that matter to all of you.  And 
we also have members of Congress here as well who are great partners in 
this effort.  And I finally -- I want to give a shout-out to the young 
people who are here as part of the White House program called “Champions 
for Change.” Really remarkable young people.  I had a chance to meet them 
backstage.  There’s Teressa Baldwin, who’s working to prevent teen suicide 
among Alaska Natives.  LeVon Thomas, who's bringing green jobs to the 
Navajo Nation.  Dallas Duplessis, who started a gardening club to promote 
healthy eating in Tulalip, Washington.  She wrote, “Our goal is not to be 
couch potatoes, but to grow some potatoes.”  I think Michelle would like 
that one. 
 
Standing in this room, with leaders of all ages, it’s impossible not to be 
optimistic about the future of Indian Country.  Obviously, we face tough 
times.  But you still believe that tomorrow can be better than today.  
You’re out there making your communities better places to live.  What you 
expect -- and what you deserve -- is a federal government that helps, not 
hinders, your efforts.  You deserve leaders in Washington who fight for you 
every single day.

That’s one of the reasons I ran for this office.  When I visited the Crow 
Nation during the campaign, I said my job was not just to win an election; 
it was to make sure that Washington starts focusing on you.  I promised a 
true government-to-government relationship -- a relationship that 
recognizes our sometimes painful history, a relationship that respects the 
unique heritage of Native Americans and that includes you in the dream that 
we all share.

  And together, we're building that relationship.  I told you I would bring 
tribal leaders to Washington to reflect -- to develop an agenda that 
reflects your hopes and your concerns.  And now, for a third year in a row, 
we have kept that promise. I told you that when I was President, we 
wouldn’t just pay lip service to the idea of consultation.  And today, 
we're holding every Cabinet agency responsible for working together with 
Indian tribes.

I told you I'd appoint Native Americans to senior positions in the White 
House.  And I know that many of you have worked with Kim Teehee of Cherokee 
Nation, my senior policy advisor for Native American issues; and Charlie 
Galbraith of the Navajo Nation, in our office of Intergovernmental Affairs.

We’re working to make our government-to-government relationship even 
stronger.  We asked Congress to recognize the power of tribes to prosecute 
perpetrators of domestic violence, whether they’re Indian or non-Indian. 
And in the wake of the Carcieri decision
 , we've asked Congress 
to restore the Secretary of the Interior’s authority to take land into 
trust for federally recognized Indian tribes.

So this new relationship represents a major step forward.  It is change.  
But I promised even more than that.  I told you that as President, I would 
work with you to tackle the most difficult problems facing Native American 
families.  And that’s exactly what we’ve done.  We passed the Tribal Law 
and Order Act, and began making Indian Country a safer place to live.  We 
permanently authorized the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, and made 
quality health care accessible to more Native Americans.

Just this week, we streamlined leasing regulations, which will lead to more 
homes, more businesses, more renewable energy on the reservation.  That’s 
what change is.

And finally, we said that even as we include Indian tribes in the broader 
promise of America, we're going to keep native traditions alive.  So when 
Michelle launched Let’s Move! in Indian Country, she brought lacrosse 
players to the White House, and invited Native American children to plant 
the “three sisters” crops in the White House vegetable garden.

While our work together is far from over, today we can see what change 
looks like.  It's the Native American-owned small business that's opening 
its doors, or a worker helping a school renovate.  It’s new roads and 
houses.  It’s wind turbines going up on tribal lands, and crime going down 
in tribal communities. That’s what change looks like.

So we should be proud of what we’ve done -- together.  But of course, that 
should sharpen our resolve to do even more.  Because as long as Native 
Americans face unemployment and poverty rates that are far higher than the 
national average, we’re going to have more work to do.  And I wake up every 
day focused on how to get this economy growing and create jobs for every 
American, faster.  We’re working to rebuild an economy where no matter who 
you are, no matter what you look like -– black, white, Latino, Asian, 
Native American –- you can make it if you try.

And that’s why I proposed the American Jobs Act
 -- to help all Americans, 
including First Americans, make it through these tough times.  It’s why my 
administration has addressed the obstacles that are unique to Indian 
country by guaranteeing loans for homeowners and small business owners and 
tribes.  It’s why we're working to equip your communities with high-speed 
Internet access.

And even as we meet at this moment, we have to prepare the next generation 
for the future -- which is why, earlier today, I signed an executive order 
to launch the White House Initiative on American Indian and Alaska Native 
Education.

Secretary Duncan -- who is here -- Secretary Salazar, they’re going to work 
together on this effort to prepare Native American youth to compete for the 
high-skilled, good jobs of tomorrow.  We’re going to find ways to reduce 
the dropout rate.  We’re going to help students who've already dropped out 
re-enter the education system.  And we’re going to strengthen our Tribal 
Colleges and Universities.  They are cornerstones of their community and 
they deserve our support.

So we've made progress together.  And a lot of that progress is possible 
because of all of you -- because the ideas that you’ve shared at the last 
two conferences, and that you’re sharing at this conference.  And that’s 
why I’m looking forward to hearing the results of the discussion that you 
have today.  I want to know what we can do to keep tackling the tough 
issues -- from education to jobs to health care to public safety.

It would be nice to say that the work was done, but we know the truth.  We 
haven’t solved all our problems.  We’ve got a long road ahead.  But I 
believe that one day, we’re going to be able to look back on these years 
and say that this was a turning point.  This was the moment when we began 
to build a strong middle class in Indian Country; the moment when 
businesses, large and small, began opening up in reservations; the moment 
when we stopped repeating the mistakes of the past, and began building a 
better future together, one that honors old traditions and welcomes every 
Native American into the American Dream.

We’ve got to finish what we started.  So today, I want to thank all of you 
for everything that you do.  I want to ask you to keep going.  And when you 
go back home, making your communities better places to live, I want you all 
to know that you’ve got a partner in Washington.  You have an 
administration that understands the challenges that you face and, most 
importantly, you’ve got a President who’s got your back.

So thank you.  God bless you.  God bless the United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.