 

 

Barack Obama

Speech to the Australian Parliament

delivered 16 November 2011, Canberra, Australia

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 click 
for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Prime Minister Gillard, Leader Abbott, thank you both for your very warm 
welcome.  Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, members of the House and Senate, 
ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the honor of standing in this great 
chamber to reaffirm the bonds between the United States and the 
Commonwealth of Australia, two of the world’s oldest democracies and two of 
the world's oldest friends.

To you and the people of Australia, thank you for your extraordinary 
hospitality.  And here, in this city -- this ancient “meeting place” -- I 
want to acknowledge the original inhabitants of this land, and one of the 
world’s oldest continuous cultures, the First Australians
 .

I first came to Australia as a child, traveling between my birthplace of 
Hawaii, and Indonesia, where I would live for four years.  As an 
eight-year-old, I couldn’t always understand your foreign language. Last 
night I did try to talk some "Strine."  Today I don’t want to subject you 
to any earbashing.  I really do love that one and I will be introducing 
that into the vernacular in Washington.

But to a young American boy, Australia and its people -- your optimism, 
your easy-going ways, your irreverent sense of humor -- all felt so 
familiar.  It felt like home.  I’ve always wanted to return.  I tried last 
year -- twice.  But this is a Lucky Country
 , and today I feel lucky to be 
here as we mark the 60th anniversary of our unbreakable alliance.

The bonds between us run deep.  In each other’s story we see so much of 
ourselves.  Ancestors who crossed vast oceans -- some by choice, some in 
chains.  Settlers who pushed west across sweeping plains.  Dreamers who 
toiled with hearts and hands to lay railroads and to build cities.  
Generations of immigrants who, with each new arrival, add a new thread to 
the brilliant tapestry of our nations.  And we are citizens who live by a 
common creed -- no matter who you are, no matter what you look like, 
everyone deserves a fair chance; everyone deserves a fair go.

Of course, progress in our society has not always come without tensions, or 
struggles to overcome a painful past.  But we are countries with a 
willingness to face our imperfections, and to keep reaching for our ideals. 
 That’s the spirit we saw in this chamber three years ago, as this nation 
inspired the world with a historic gesture of reconciliation with 
Indigenous Australians.  It’s the spirit of progress, in America, which 
allows me to stand before you today, as President of the United States.  
And it’s the spirit I’ll see later today when I become the first U.S. 
President to visit the Northern Territory, where I’ll meet the Traditional 
Owners of the Land.

Nor has our progress come without great sacrifice.  This morning, I was 
humbled and deeply moved by a visit to your war memorial to pay my respects 
to Australia’s fallen sons and daughters.  Later today, in Darwin, I’ll 
join the Prime Minister in saluting our brave men and women in uniform.  
And it will be a reminder that -- from the trenches of the First World War 
to the mountains of Afghanistan -- Aussies and Americans have stood 
together, we have fought together, we have given lives together in every 
single major conflict of the past hundred years.  Every single one.

This solidarity has sustained us through a difficult decade. We will never 
forget the attacks of 9/11, that took the lives not only of Americans, but 
people from many nations, including Australia.  In the United States, we 
will never forget how Australia invoked the ANZUS Treaty
 -- for the first time ever -- 
showing that our two nations stood as one.  And none of us will ever forget 
those we’ve lost to al Qaeda’s terror in the years since, including 
innocent Australians.

And that’s why, as both the Prime Minister and the Opposition Leader 
indicated, we are determined to succeed in Afghanistan.  It is why I salute 
Australia -- outside of NATO, the largest contributor of troops to this 
vital mission.  And it’s why we honor all those who have served there for 
our security, including 32 Australian patriots who gave their lives, among 
them Captain Bryce Duffy, Corporal Ashley Birt, and Lance Corporal Luke 
Gavin.  We will honor their sacrifice by making sure that Afghanistan is 
never again used as a source for attacks against our people.  Never again. 

As two global partners, we stand up for the security and the dignity of 
people around the world.  We see it when our rescue workers rush to help 
others in times of fire and drought and flooding rains.  We see it when we 
partner to keep the peace -- from East Timor to the Balkans -- and when we 
pursue our shared vision:  a world without nuclear weapons.  We see it in 
the development that lifts up a child in Africa; the assistance that saves 
a family from famine; and when we extend our support to the people of the 
Middle East and North Africa, who deserve the same liberty that allows us 
to gather in this great hall of democracy.

This is the alliance we reaffirm today -- rooted in our values; renewed by 
every generation.  This is the partnership we worked to deepen over the 
past three years.  And today I can stand before you and say with confidence 
that the alliance between the United States and Australia has never been 
stronger. It has been to our past; our alliance continues to be 
indispensable to our future.  So here, among close friends, I’d like to 
address the larger purpose of my visit to this region -- our efforts to 
advance security, prosperity and human dignity across the Asia Pacific.

For the United States, this reflects a broader shift.  After a decade in 
which we fought two wars that cost us dearly, in blood and treasure, the 
United States is turning our attention to the vast potential of the Asia 
Pacific region.  In just a few weeks, after nearly nine years, the last 
American troops will leave Iraq and our war there will be over.  In 
Afghanistan, we’ve begun a transition -- a responsible transition -- so 
Afghans can take responsibility for their future and so coalition forces 
can begin to draw down.  And with partners like Australia, we’ve struck 
major blows against al Qaeda and put that terrorist organization on the 
path to defeat, including delivering justice to Osama bin Laden
 .

So make no mistake, the tide of war is receding, and America is looking 
ahead to the future that we must build.  From Europe to the Americas, we've 
strengthened alliances and partnerships.  At home, we’re investing in the 
sources of our long-term economic strength -- the education of our 
children, the training of our workers, the infrastructure that fuels 
commerce, the science and the research that leads to new breakthroughs.  
We’ve made hard decisions to cut our deficit and put our fiscal house in 
order -- and we will continue to do more.  Because our economic strength at 
home is the foundation of our leadership in the world, including here in 
the Asia Pacific.  

Our new focus on this region reflects a fundamental truth -- the United 
States has been, and always will be, a Pacific nation. Asian immigrants 
helped build America, and millions of American families, including my own, 
cherish our ties to this region.  From the bombing of Darwin
 to the liberation of 
Pacific islands, from the rice paddies of Southeast Asia to a cold Korean 
Peninsula, generations of Americans have served here, and died here -- so 
democracies could take root; so economic miracles could lift hundreds of 
millions to prosperity.  Americans have bled with you for this progress, 
and we will not allow it -- we will never allow it to be reversed.

Here, we see the future.  As the world’s fastest-growing region -- and home 
to more than half the global economy -- the Asia Pacific is critical to 
achieving my highest priority, and that's creating jobs and opportunity for 
the American people.  With most of the world’s nuclear power and some half 
of humanity, Asia will largely define whether the century ahead will be 
marked by conflict or cooperation, needless suffering or human progress. 

As President, I have, therefore, made a deliberate and strategic decision 
-- as a Pacific nation, the United States will play a larger and long-term 
role in shaping this region and its future, by upholding core principles 
and in close partnership with our allies and friends.

Let me tell you what this means.  First, we seek security, which is the 
foundation of peace and prosperity.  We stand for an international order in 
which the rights and responsibilities of all nations and all people are 
upheld.  Where international law and norms are enforced.  Where commerce 
and freedom of navigation are not impeded.  Where emerging powers 
contribute to regional security, and where disagreements are resolved 
peacefully.  That's the future that we seek.

Now, I know that some in this region have wondered about America’s 
commitment to upholding these principles.  So let me address this directly. 
 As the United States puts our fiscal house in order, we are reducing our 
spending.  And, yes, after a decade of extraordinary growth in our military 
budgets -- and as we definitively end the war in Iraq, and begin to wind 
down the war in Afghanistan -- we will make some reductions in defense 
spending.

As we consider the future of our armed forces, we've begun a review that 
will identify our most important strategic interests and guide our defense 
priorities and spending over the coming decade.  So here is what this 
region must know.  As we end today’s wars, I have directed my national 
security team to make our presence and mission in the Asia Pacific a top 
priority.  As a result, reductions in U.S. defense spending will not -- I 
repeat, will not -- come at the expense of the Asia Pacific. 

My guidance is clear.  As we plan and budget for the future, we will 
allocate the resources necessary to maintain our strong military presence 
in this region.  We will preserve our unique ability to project power and 
deter threats to peace.  We will keep our commitments, including our treaty 
obligations to allies like Australia.  And we will constantly strengthen 
our capabilities to meet the needs of the 21st century.  Our enduring 
interests in the region demand our enduring presence in the region.  The 
United States is a Pacific power, and we are here to stay.

Indeed, we are already modernizing America’s defense posture across the 
Asia Pacific.  It will be more broadly distributed -- maintaining our 
strong presence in Japan and the Korean Peninsula, while enhancing our 
presence in Southeast Asia.  Our posture will be more flexible -- with new 
capabilities to ensure that our forces can operate freely.  And our posture 
will be more sustainable, by helping allies and partners build their 
capacity, with more training and exercises.

We see our new posture here in Australia.  The initiatives that the Prime 
Minister and I announced yesterday
 
will bring our two militaries even closer together.  We’ll have new 
opportunities to train with other allies and partners, from the Pacific to 
the Indian Ocean.  And it will allow us to respond faster to the full range 
of challenges, including humanitarian crises and disaster relief.

Since World War II, Australians have warmly welcomed American service 
members who've passed through.  On behalf of the American people, I thank 
you for welcoming those who will come next, as they ensure that our 
alliance stays strong and ready for the tests of our time.

We see America’s enhanced presence in the alliance that we’ve strengthened: 
 In Japan, where our alliance remains a cornerstone of regional security.  
In Thailand, where we’re partnering for disaster relief.  In the 
Philippines, where we’re increasing ship visits and training.  And in South 
Korea, where our commitment to the security of the Republic of Korea will 
never waver.  Indeed, we also reiterate our resolve to act firmly against 
any proliferation activities by North Korea.  The transfer of nuclear 
materials or material by North Korea to states or non-state entities would 
be considered a grave threat to the United States and our allies, and we 
would hold North Korea fully accountable for the consequences of such 
action.

We see America’s enhanced presence across Southeast Asia -- in our 
partnership with Indonesia against piracy and violent extremism, and in our 
work with Malaysia to prevent proliferation; in the ships we’ll deploy to 
Singapore, and in our closer cooperation with Vietnam and Cambodia; and in 
our welcome of India as it “looks east” and plays a larger role as an Asian 
power.

At the same time, we’ll reengage with our regional organizations.  Our work 
in Bali this week will mark my third meeting with ASEAN leaders, and I’ll 
be proud to be the first American President to attend the East Asia Summit. 
 And together, I believe we can address shared challenges, such as 
proliferation and maritime security, including cooperation in the South 
China Sea.

Meanwhile, the United States will continue our effort to build a 
cooperative relationship with China.  All of our nations -- Australia, the 
United States -- all of our nations have a profound interest in the rise of 
a peaceful and prosperous China. That's why the United States welcomes it.  
We’ve seen that China can be a partner from reducing tensions on the Korean 
Peninsula to preventing proliferation.  And we’ll seek more opportunities 
for cooperation with Beijing, including greater communication between our 
militaries to promote understanding and avoid miscalculation.  We will do 
this, even as we continue to speak candidly to Beijing about the importance 
of upholding international norms and respecting the universal human rights 
of the Chinese people.

A secure and peaceful Asia is the foundation for the second area in which 
America is leading again, and that's advancing our shared prosperity.  
History teaches us the greatest force the world has ever known for creating 
wealth and opportunity is free markets.  So we seek economies that are open 
and transparent.  We seek trade that is free and fair.  And we seek an open 
international economic system, where rules are clear and every nation plays 
by them.

In Australia and America, we understand these principles.  We’re among the 
most open economies on Earth.  Six years into our landmark trade agreement, 
commerce between us has soared.  Our workers are creating new partnerships 
and new products, like the advanced aircraft technologies we build together 
in Victoria.  We’re the leading investor in Australia, and you invest more 
in America than you do in any other nation, creating good jobs in both 
countries.

We recognize that economic partnerships can’t just be about one nation 
extracting another’s resources.  We understand that no long-term strategy 
for growth can be imposed from above.  Real prosperity -- prosperity that 
fosters innovation, and prosperity that endures -- comes from unleashing 
our greatest economic resource, and that’s the entrepreneurial spirit, the 
talents of our people.

So even as America competes aggressively in Asian markets, we’re forging 
the economic partnerships that create opportunity for all.  Building on our 
historic trade agreement with South Korea, we’re working with Australia and 
our other APEC partners to create a seamless regional economy.  And with 
Australia and other partners, we’re on track to achieve our most ambitious 
trade agreement yet, and a potential model for the entire region -- the 
Trans-Pacific Partnership.

The United States remains the world’s largest and most dynamic economy.  
But in an interconnected world, we all rise and fall together.  That’s why 
I pushed so hard to put the G20 at the front and center of global economic 
decision-making -- to give more nations a leadership role in managing the 
international economy, including Australia.  And together, we saved the 
world economy from a depression.  And now, our urgent challenge is to 
create the growth that puts people to work.

We need growth that is fair, where every nation plays by the rules; where 
workers rights are respected, and our businesses can compete on a level 
playing field; where the intellectual property and new technologies that 
fuel innovation are protected; and where currencies are market driven so no 
nation has an unfair advantage.

We also need growth that is broad -- not just for the few, but for the many 
-- with reforms that protect consumers from abuse and a global commitment 
to end the corruption that stifles growth.  We need growth that is 
balanced, because we will all prosper more when countries with large 
surpluses take action to boost demand at home.

And we need growth that is sustainable.  This includes the clean energy 
that creates green jobs and combats climate change, which cannot be denied. 
 We see it in the stronger fires, the devastating floods, the Pacific 
islands confronting rising seas. And as countries with large carbon 
footprints, the United States and Australia have a special responsibility 
to lead.

Every nation will contribute to the solution in its own way -- and I know 
this issue is not without controversy, in both our countries.  But what we 
can do -- and what we are doing -- is to work together to make 
unprecedented investments in clean energy, to increase energy efficiency, 
and to meet the commitments we made at Copenhagen and Cancun.  We can do 
this, and we will.

As we grow our economies, we’ll also remember the link between growth and 
good governance -- the rule of law, transparent institutions, the equal 
administration of justice.  Because history shows that, over the long run, 
democracy and economic growth go hand in hand.  And prosperity without 
freedom is just another form of poverty.

And this brings me to the final area where we are leading -- our support 
for the fundamental rights of every human being.  Every nation will chart 
its own course.  Yet it is also true that certain rights are universal; 
among them, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, 
freedom of religion, and the freedom of citizens to choose their own 
leaders.

These are not American rights, or Australian rights, or Western rights.  
These are human rights.  They stir in every soul, as we’ve seen in the 
democracies that have succeeded here in Asia.  Other models have been tried 
and they have failed -- fascism and communism, rule by one man and rule by 
committee.  And they failed for the same simple reason:  They ignore the 
ultimate source of power and legitimacy -- the will of the people.  Yes, 
democracy can be messy and rough -- I understand you mix it up quite well 
during Question Time.  But whatever our differences of party or of 
ideology, we know in our democracies we are blessed with the greatest form 
of government ever known to man.

So as two great democracies, we speak up for those freedoms when they are 
threatened.  We partner with emerging democracies, like Indonesia, to help 
strengthen the institutions upon which good governance depends.  We 
encourage open government, because democracies depend on an informed and 
active citizenry.  We help strengthen civil societies, because they empower 
our citizens to hold their governments accountable.  And we advance the 
rights of all people -- women, minorities and indigenous cultures -- 
because when societies harness the potential of all their citizens, these 
societies are more successful, they are more prosperous and they are more 
just.

These principles have guided our approach to Burma, with a combination of 
sanctions and engagement.  And today, Aung San Suu Kyi
 is free from house arrest.  
Some political prisoners have been released, and the government has begun a 
dialogue.  Still, violations of human rights persist.  So we will continue 
to speak clearly about the steps that must be taken for the government of 
Burma to have a better relationship with the United States.

This is the future we seek in the Asia Pacific -- security, prosperity and 
dignity for all.  That’s what we stand for.  That’s who we are.  That’s the 
future we will pursue, in partnership with allies and friends, and with 
every element of American power.  So let there be no doubt:  In the Asia 
Pacific in the 21st century, the United States of America is all in.

Still, in times of great change and uncertainty, the future can seem 
unsettling.  Across a vast ocean, it’s impossible to know what lies beyond 
the horizon.  But if this vast region and its people teach us anything, 
it’s the yearning for liberty and progress will not be denied.

It’s why women in this country demanded that their voices be heard, making 
Australia the first nation to let women vote and run for parliament and, 
one day, become Prime Minister
 .  It’s why the 
people took to the streets -- from Delhi to Seoul, from Manila to Jakarta 
-- to throw off colonialism and dictatorship and build some of the world’s 
largest democracies.

It’s why a soldier in a watchtower along the DMZ defends a free people in 
the South, and why a man from the North risks his life to escape across the 
border.  Why soldiers in blue helmets keep the peace in a new nation.  And 
why women of courage go into brothels to save young girls from modern-day 
slavery, which must come to an end.

It’s why men of peace in saffron robes faced beatings and bullets, and why 
every day -- from some of the world’s largest cities to dusty rural towns, 
in small acts of courage the world may never see -- a student posts a blog; 
a citizen signs a charter; an activist remains unbowed, imprisoned in his 
home, just to have the same rights that we cherish here today.

Men and women like these know what the world must never forget.  The 
currents of history may ebb and flow, but over time they move -- decidedly, 
decisively -- in a single direction.  History is on the side of the free -- 
free societies, free governments, free economies, free people.  And the 
future belongs to those who stand firm for those ideals, in this region and 
around the world.

This is the story of the alliance we celebrate today.  This is the essence 
of America’s leadership; it is the essence of our partnership.  This is the 
work we will carry on together, for the security and prosperity and dignity 
of all people. 

So God bless Australia.  God bless America.  And God bless the friendship 
between our two peoples.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Also in this database: Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard's Address to 
the U.S. Congress 

Text and Image Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Source: YouTube.com

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Image = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.