 

 

Barack Obama

Address on the Death of Muammar Qaddafi

delivered 21 October 2011, White House, Washington, D.C.

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
  
 
click for flash


 

Good afternoon, everybody. Today, the government of Libya announced the 
death of Muammar Qaddafi. This marks the end of a long and painful chapter 
for the people of Libya, who now have the opportunity to determine their 
own destiny in a new and democratic Libya.

For four decades, the Qaddafi regime ruled the Libyan people with an iron 
fist. Basic human rights were denied. Innocent civilians were detained, 
beaten and killed. And Libya’s wealth was squandered. The enormous 
potential of the Libyan people was held back, and terror was used as a 
political weapon.

Today, we can definitively say that the Qaddafi regime has come to an end. 
The last major regime strongholds have fallen. The new government is 
consolidating the control over the country. And one of the world’s 
longest-serving dictators is no more.

One year ago, the notion of a free Libya seemed impossible. But then the 
Libyan people rose up and demanded their rights. And when Qaddafi and his 
forces started going city to city, town by town, to brutalize men, women 
and children, the world refused to stand idly by.

Faced with the potential of mass atrocities -- and a call for help from the 
Libyan people -- the United States and our friends and allies stopped 
Qaddafi’s forces in their tracks. A coalition that included the United 
States, NATO and Arab nations persevered through the summer to protect 
Libyan civilians. And meanwhile, the courageous Libyan people fought for 
their own future and broke the back of the regime.

So this is a momentous day in the history of Libya. The dark shadow of 
tyranny has been lifted. And with this enormous promise, the Libyan people 
now have a great responsibility -- to build an inclusive and tolerant and 
democratic Libya that stands as the ultimate rebuke to Qaddafi’s 
dictatorship. We look forward to the announcement of the country’s 
liberation, the quick formation of an interim government, and a stable 
transition to Libya’s first free and fair elections. And we call on our 
Libyan friends to continue to work with the international community to 
secure dangerous materials, and to respect the human rights of all Libyans 
–- including those who have been detained.

We’re under no illusions -- Libya will travel a long and winding road to 
full democracy. There will be difficult days ahead. But the United States, 
together with the international community, is committed to the Libyan 
people. You have won your revolution. And now, we will be a partner as you 
forge a future that provides dignity, freedom and opportunity.

For the region, today’s events prove once more that the rule of an iron 
fist inevitably comes to an end. Across the Arab world, citizens have stood 
up to claim their rights. Youth are delivering a powerful rebuke to 
dictatorship. And those leaders who try to deny their human dignity will 
not succeed.

For us here in the United States, we are reminded today of all those 
Americans that we lost at the hands of Qaddafi’s terror. Their families and 
friends are in our thoughts and in our prayers. We recall their bright 
smiles, their extraordinary lives, and their tragic deaths. We know that 
nothing can close the wound of their loss, but we stand together as one 
nation by their side.

For nearly eight months, many Americans have provided extraordinary service 
in support of our efforts to protect the Libyan people, and to provide them 
with a chance to determine their own destiny. Our skilled diplomats have 
helped to lead an unprecedented global response. Our brave pilots have 
flown in Libya’s skies, our sailors have provided support off Libya’s 
shores, and our leadership at NATO has helped guide our coalition. Without 
putting a single U.S. service member on the ground, we achieved our 
objectives, and our NATO mission will soon come to an end.

This comes at a time when we see the strength of American leadership across 
the world. We’ve taken out al Qaeda leaders, and we’ve put them on the path 
to defeat. We’re winding down the war in Iraq and have begun a transition 
in Afghanistan. And now, working in Libya with friends and allies, we’ve 
demonstrated what collective action can achieve in the 21st century.

Of course, above all, today belongs to the people of Libya. This is a 
moment for them to remember all those who suffered and were lost under 
Qaddafi, and look forward to the promise of a new day. And I know the 
American people wish the people of Libya the very best in what will be a 
challenging but hopeful days, weeks, months and years ahead.

Thank you, very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.