 

 

Barack Obama

On Authorization of Odyssey Dawn, Ltd Military Action in Libya

delivered 19 March 2011, The Convention Center Brasil 21, Brasilia, Brazil

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon, everybody.  Today I authorized the Armed Forces of the 
United States to begin a limited military action in Libya in support of an 
international effort to protect Libyan civilians.  That action has now 
begun.

In this effort, the United States is acting with a broad coalition that is 
committed to enforcing United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973, 
which calls for the protection of the Libyan people.  That coalition met in 
Paris today to send a unified message, and it brings together many of our 
European and Arab partners.

This is not an outcome that the United States or any of our partners 
sought.  Even yesterday, the international community offered Muammar 
Qaddafi the opportunity to pursue an immediate cease-fire, one that stopped 
the violence against civilians and the advances of Qaddafi’s forces.  But 
despite the hollow words of his government, he has ignored that 
opportunity.  His attacks on his own people have continued.  His forces 
have been on the move.  And the danger faced by the people of Libya has 
grown.

I am deeply aware of the risks of any military action, no matter what 
limits we place on it.  I want the American people to know that the use of 
force is not our first choice and it’s not a choice that I make lightly.  
But we cannot stand idly by when a tyrant tells his people that there will 
be no mercy, and his forces step up their assaults on cities like Benghazi 
and Misurata, where innocent men and women face brutality and death at the 
hands of their own government.

So we must be clear:  Actions have consequences, and the writ of the 
international community must be enforced.  That is the cause of this 
coalition. 

As a part of this effort, the United States will contribute our unique 
capabilities at the front end of the mission to protect Libyan civilians, 
and enable the enforcement of a no-fly zone that will be led by our 
international partners.  And as I said yesterday, we will not -- I repeat 
-- we will not deploy any U.S. troops on the ground.

As Commander-in-Chief, I have great confidence in the men and women of our 
military who will carry out this mission.  They carry with them the respect 
of a grateful nation. 

I'm also proud that we are acting as part of a coalition that includes 
close allies and partners who are prepared to meet their responsibility to 
protect the people of Libya and uphold the mandate of the international 
community. 

I've acted after consulting with my national security team, and Republican 
and Democratic leaders of Congress.  And in the coming hours and days, my 
administration will keep the American people fully informed.  But make no 
mistake:  Today we are part of a broad coalition.  We are answering the 
calls of a threatened people.  And we are acting in the interests of the 
United States and the world.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.