 

 

Barack Obama

Address at American-Israel Public Affairs Committee Conference

delivered 22 May 2011, Walter E. Washington Convention Center, Washington, 
D.C.

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good morning. Thank you very much. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you so 
much. Please, have a seat. Thank you.

What a remarkable, remarkable crowd. Thank you, Rosy, for your very kind 
introduction. I did not know you played basketball. I will take your word 
for it. Rosy, thank you for your many years of friendship. Back in Chicago, 
when I was just getting started in national politics, I reached out to a 
lot of people for advice and counsel, and Rosy was one of the very first. 
When I made my first visit to Israel, after entering the Senate, Rosy, you 
were at my side every step of that profound journey through the Holy Land. 
So I want to thank you for your enduring friendship, your leadership, and 
for your warm introduction today.

I also want to thank David Victor, Howard Kohr and all the board of 
directors. And let me say that it is wonderful to look out and see so many 
great friends, including a very large delegation from Chicago. Alan Solow, 
Howard Green. Thank you all.

I want to thank the members of Congress who are joining you today -- who do 
so much to sustain the bonds between the United States and Israel, 
including Eric Cantor -- Steny Hoyer -- and the tireless leader I was proud 
to appoint as the new chair of the DNC, Debbie Wasserman Schultz.

We’re joined by Israel’s representative to the United States, Ambassador 
Michael Oren  . And we’re joined 
by one of my top advisors on Israel and the Middle East for the past four 
years and who I know is going to be an outstanding ambassador to Israel, 
Dan Shapiro. Dan has always been a close and trusted advisor and friend, 
and I know that he will do a terrific job.

And at a time when so many young people around the world are standing up 
and making their voices heard, I also want to acknowledge all the college 
students from across the country who are here today. No one has a greater 
stake in the outcome of events that are unfolding today than your 
generation, and it’s inspiring to see you devote your time and energy to 
help shape that future.

Now, I’m not here to subject you to a long policy speech. I gave one on 
Thursday in which I said that the United States sees the historic changes 
sweeping the Middle East and North Africa as a moment of great challenge, 
but also a moment of opportunity for greater peace and security for the 
entire region, including the State of Israel.

On Friday, I was joined at the White House by Prime Minister Netanyahu
 , and we reaffirmed -- we 
reaffirmed that fundamental truth that has guided our presidents and prime 
ministers for more than 60 years -- that even while we may at times 
disagree, as friends sometimes will, the bonds between the United States 
and Israel are unbreakable -- and the commitment of the United States to 
the security of Israel is ironclad.

A strong and secure Israel is in the national security interest of the 
United States not simply because we share strategic interests, although we 
do both seek a region where families and children can live free from the 
threat of violence. It’s not simply because we face common dangers, 
although there can be no denying that terrorism and the spread of nuclear 
weapons are grave threats to both our nations. 

America’s commitment to Israel’s security flows from a deeper place -- and 
that’s the values we share. As two people who struggled to win our freedom 
against overwhelming odds, we understand that preserving the security for 
which our forefathers -- and foremothers -- fought must be the work of 
every generation. As two vibrant democracies, we recognize that the 
liberties and freedoms we cherish must be constantly nurtured. And as the 
nation that recognized the State of Israel moments after its independence, 
we have a profound commitment to its survival as a strong, secure homeland 
for the Jewish people.

We also know how difficult that search for security can be, especially for 
a small nation like Israel living in a very tough neighborhood. I’ve seen 
it firsthand. When I touched my hand against the Western Wall and placed my 
prayer between its ancient stones, I thought of all the centuries that the 
children of Israel had longed to return to their ancient homeland. When I 
went to Sderot and saw the daily struggle to survive in the eyes of an 
eight-year-old boy who lost his leg to a Hamas rocket, and when I walked 
among the Hall of Names at Yad Vashem
 , I was reminded 
of the existential fear of Israelis when a modern dictator seeks nuclear 
weapons and threatens to wipe Israel off the face of the map -- face of the 
Earth.

Because we understand the challenges Israel faces, I and my Administration 
have made the security of Israel a priority. It’s why we’ve increased 
cooperation between our militaries to unprecedented levels. It’s why we’re 
making our most advanced technologies available to our Israeli allies. It’s 
why, despite tough fiscal times, we’ve increased foreign military financing 
to record levels. And that includes additional support -- beyond regular 
military aid -– for the Iron Dome  
anti-rocket system. A powerful example of American-Israeli cooperation -- a 
powerful example of American-Israeli cooperation which has already 
intercepted rockets from Gaza and helped saved Israeli lives. So make no 
mistake, we will maintain Israel’s qualitative military edge.

You also see our commitment to our shared security in our determination to 
prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Here in the United States, 
we’ve imposed the toughest sanctions ever on the Iranian regime. At the 
United Nations, under our leadership, we’ve secured the most comprehensive 
international sanctions on the regime, which have been joined by allies and 
partners around the world. Today, Iran is virtually cut off from large 
parts of the international financial system, and we’re going to keep up the 
pressure. So let me be absolutely clear -- we remain committed to 
preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.

Its illicit nuclear program is just one challenge that Iran poses. As I 
said on Thursday, the Iranian government has shown its hypocrisy by 
claiming to support the rights of protesters while treating its own people 
with brutality. Moreover, Iran continues to support terrorism across the 
region, including providing weapons and funds to terrorist organizations. 
So we will continue to work to prevent these actions, and we will stand up 
to groups like Hezbollah, who exercise political assassination and seek to 
impose their will through rockets and car bombs.

  You also see our commitment to Israel’s security in our steadfast 
opposition to any attempt to de-legitimize the State of Israel. As I said 
at the United Nations last year, "Israel’s existence must not be a subject 
for debate," and "efforts to chip away at Israel’s legitimacy will only be 
met by the unshakeable opposition of the United States."

So when the Durban Review Conference
 advanced 
anti-Israel sentiment, we withdrew. In the wake of the Goldstone Report
 , we stood up strongly for 
Israel’s right to defend itself. When an effort was made to insert the 
United Nations into matters that should be resolved through direct 
negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, we vetoed it. 

And so, in both word and deed, we have been unwavering in our support of 
Israel’s security. And it is precisely because of our commitment to 
Israel’s long-term security that we have worked to advance peace between 
Israelis and Palestinians.

Now, I have said repeatedly that core issues can only be negotiated in 
direct talks between the parties. And I indicated on Thursday
 that the recent agreement between Fatah 
and Hamas poses an enormous obstacle to peace. No country can be expected 
to negotiate with a terrorist organization sworn to its destruction. And we 
will continue to demand that Hamas accept the basic responsibilities of 
peace, including recognizing Israel’s right to exist and rejecting violence 
and adhering to all existing agreements. And we once again call on Hamas to 
release Gilad Shalit  , who has 
been kept from his family for five long years.

And yet, no matter how hard it may be to start meaningful negotiations 
under current circumstances, we must acknowledge that a failure to try is 
not an option. The status quo is unsustainable. And that is why on Thursday 
I stated publicly the principles that the United States believes can 
provide a foundation for negotiations toward an agreement to end the 
conflict and all claims -- the broad outlines of which have been known for 
many years, and have been the template for discussions between the United 
States, Israel, and the Palestinians since at least the Clinton 
administration.

I know that stating these principles -- on the issues of territory and 
security -- generated some controversy over the past few days. I wasn’t 
surprised. I know very well that the easy thing to do, particularly for a 
President preparing for reelection, is to avoid any controversy. I don’t 
need Rahm to tell me that. Don’t need Axelrod to tell me that. But I said 
to Prime Minister Netanyahu, I believe that the current situation in the 
Middle East does not allow for procrastination. I also believe that real 
friends talk openly and honestly with one another. So I want to share with 
you some of what I said to the Prime Minister.

Here are the facts we all must confront. First, the number of Palestinians 
living west of the Jordan River is growing rapidly and fundamentally 
reshaping the demographic realities of both Israel and the Palestinian 
Territories. This will make it harder and harder -- without a peace deal -- 
to maintain Israel as both a Jewish state and a democratic state.

Second, technology will make it harder for Israel to defend itself in the 
absence of a genuine peace.

Third, a new generation of Arabs is reshaping the region. A just and 
lasting peace can no longer be forged with one or two Arab leaders.  Going 
forward, millions of Arab citizens have to see that peace is possible for 
that peace to be sustained.

And just as the context has changed in the Middle East, so too has it been 
changing in the international community over the last several years. 
There’s a reason why the Palestinians are pursuing their interests at the 
United Nations. They recognize that there is an impatience with the peace 
process, or the absence of one, not just in the Arab World -- in Latin 
America, in Asia, and in Europe. And that impatience is growing, and it’s 
already manifesting itself in capitals around the world.

And those are the facts. I firmly believe, and I repeated on Thursday
 , that peace cannot be imposed on the 
parties to the conflict. No vote at the United Nations
 will ever create an independent 
Palestinian state. And the United States will stand up against efforts to 
single Israel out at the United Nations or in any international forum. 
Israel’s legitimacy is not a matter for debate. That is my commitment; that 
is my pledge to all of you.

Moreover, we know that peace demands a partner –- which is why I said that 
Israel cannot be expected to negotiate with Palestinians who do not 
recognize its right to exist. And we will hold the Palestinians accountable 
for their actions and for their rhetoric.

But the march to isolate Israel internationally -- and the impulse of the 
Palestinians to abandon negotiations –- will continue to gain momentum in 
the absence of a credible peace process and alternative. And for us to have 
leverage with the Palestinians, to have leverage with the Arab States and 
with the international community, the basis for negotiations has to hold 
out the prospect of success. And so, in advance of a five-day trip to 
Europe in which the Middle East will be a topic of acute interest, I chose 
to speak about what peace will require. 

There was nothing particularly original in my proposal; this basic 
framework for negotiations has long been the basis for discussions among 
the parties, including previous U.S. administrations. Since questions have 
been raised, let me repeat what I actually said on Thursday -- not what I 
was reported to have said. 

I said that the United States believes that negotiations should result in 
two states, with permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan, and 
Egypt, and permanent Israeli borders with Palestine. The borders of Israel 
and Palestine should be based on the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps 
-- so that secure and recognized borders are established for both states. 
The Palestinian people must have the right to govern themselves, and reach 
their potential, in a sovereign and contiguous state.
 
As for security, every state has the right to self-defense, and Israel must 
be able to defend itself –- by itself -– against any threat. Provisions 
must also be robust enough to prevent a resurgence of terrorism, to stop 
the infiltration of weapons, and to provide effective border security. And 
a full and phased withdrawal of Israeli military forces should be 
coordinated with the assumption of Palestinian security responsibility in a 
sovereign and non-militarized state. And the duration of this transition 
period must be agreed, and the effectiveness of security arrangements must 
be demonstrated.

Now, that is what I said. And it was my reference to the 1967 lines -- with 
mutually agreed swaps -- that received the lion’s share of the attention, 
including just now. And since my position has been misrepresented several 
times, let me reaffirm what “1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps” means.

By definition, it means that the parties themselves -– Israelis and 
Palestinians -– will negotiate a border that is different than the one that 
existed on June 4, 1967. That’s what mutually agreed-upon swaps means. It 
is a well-known formula to all who have worked on this issue for a 
generation. It allows the parties themselves to account for the changes 
that have taken place over the last 44 years. It allows the parties 
themselves to take account of those changes, including the new demographic 
realities on the ground, and the needs of both sides. The ultimate goal is 
two states for two people: Israel as a Jewish state and the homeland for 
the Jewish people -- and the State of Palestine as the homeland for the 
Palestinian people -- each state in joined self-determination, mutual 
recognition, and peace.

If there is a controversy, then, it’s not based in substance. What I did on 
Thursday was to say publicly what has long been acknowledged privately. 
I’ve done so because we can’t afford to wait another decade, or another two 
decades, or another three decades to achieve peace. The world is moving too 
fast. The world is moving too fast. The extraordinary challenges facing 
Israel will only grow. Delay will undermine Israel’s security and the peace 
that the Israeli people deserve.

Now, I know that some of you will disagree with this assessment. I respect 
that. And as fellow Americans and friends of Israel, I know we can have 
this discussion.

Ultimately, it is the right and the responsibility of the Israeli 
government to make the hard choices that are necessary to protect a Jewish 
and democratic state for which so many generations have sacrificed. And as 
a friend of Israel, I’m committed to doing our part to see that this goal 
is realized. And I will call not just on Israel, but on the Palestinians, 
on the Arab States, and the international community to join us in this 
effort, because the burden of making hard choices must not be Israel’s 
alone.

But even as we do all that’s necessary to ensure Israel’s security, even as 
we are clear-eyed about the difficult challenges before us, and even as we 
pledge to stand by Israel through whatever tough days lie ahead, I hope we 
do not give up on that vision of peace. For if history teaches us anything, 
if the story of Israel teaches us anything, it is that with courage and 
resolve, progress is possible. Peace is possible.

The Talmud teaches us that, "So long as a person still has life, they 
should never abandon faith." And that lesson seems especially fitting 
today.

For so long as there are those across the Middle East and beyond who are 
standing up for the legitimate rights and freedoms which have been denied 
by their governments, the United States will never abandon our support for 
those rights that are universal. 
    
And so long as there are those who long for a better future, we will never 
abandon our pursuit of a just and lasting peace that ends this conflict 
with two states living side by side in peace and security. This is not 
idealism; it is not naïveté. It is a hard-headed recognition that a genuine 
peace is the only path that will ultimately provide for a peaceful 
Palestine as the homeland of the Palestinian people and a Jewish state of 
Israel as the homeland of the Jewish people. That is my goal, and I look 
forward to continuing to work with AIPAC to achieve that goal.

Thank you. God bless you. God bless Israel, and God bless the United States 
of America.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.