 

 

Barack Obama

On the USSC Ruling on the Affordable Care Act

delivered 28 June 2012, White House, Washington, D.C.

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Good afternoon.  Earlier today, the Supreme Court upheld the 
constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act -- the name of the health care 
reform we passed two years ago.  In doing so, they've reaffirmed a 
fundamental principle that here in America -- in the wealthiest nation on 
Earth – no illness or accident should lead to any family’s financial ruin. 

I know there will be a lot of discussion today about the politics of all 
this, about who won and who lost.  That’s how these things tend to be 
viewed here in Washington.  But that discussion completely misses the 
point.  Whatever the politics, today’s decision was a victory for people 
all over this country whose lives will be more secure because of this law 
and the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold it.

And because this law has a direct impact on so many Americans, I want to 
take this opportunity to talk about exactly what it means for you. 

First, if you’re one of the more than 250 million Americans who already 
have health insurance, you will keep your health insurance -- this law will 
only make it more secure and more affordable.  Insurance companies can no 
longer impose lifetime limits on the amount of care you receive.  They can 
no longer discriminate against children with preexisting conditions.  They 
can no longer drop your coverage if you get sick.  They can no longer jack 
up your premiums without reason.  They are required to provide free 
preventive care like check-ups and mammograms -- a provision that's already 
helped 54 million Americans with private insurance.  And by this August, 
nearly 13 million of you will receive a rebate from your insurance company 
because it spent too much on things like administrative costs and CEO 
bonuses, and not enough on your health care. 

There’s more.  Because of the Affordable Care Act, young adults under the 
age of 26 are able to stay on their parent's health care plans -- a 
provision that's already helped 6 million young Americans.  And because of 
the Affordable Care Act, seniors receive a discount on their prescription 
drugs -- a discount that's already saved more than 5 million seniors on 
Medicare about $600 each.

All of this is happening because of the Affordable Care Act. These 
provisions provide common-sense protections for middle class families, and 
they enjoy broad popular support.  And thanks to today’s decision, all of 
these benefits and protections will continue for Americans who already have 
health insurance.   

Now, if you’re one of the 30 million Americans who don’t yet have health 
insurance, starting in 2014 this law will offer you an array of quality, 
affordable, private health insurance plans to choose from.  Each state will 
take the lead in designing their own menu of options, and if states can 
come up with even better ways of covering more people at the same quality 
and cost, this law allows them to do that, too.  And I’ve asked Congress to 
help speed up that process, and give states this flexibility in year one. 

Once states set up these health insurance marketplaces, known as exchanges, 
insurance companies will no longer be able to discriminate against any 
American with a preexisting health condition.  They won’t be able to charge 
you more just because you’re a woman.  They won’t be able to bill you into 
bankruptcy. If you’re sick, you’ll finally have the same chance to get 
quality, affordable health care as everyone else.  And if you can’t afford 
the premiums, you'll receive a credit that helps pay for it. 

Today, the Supreme Court also upheld the principle that people who can 
afford health insurance should take the responsibility to buy health 
insurance.  This is important for two reasons. 

First, when uninsured people who can afford coverage get sick, and show up 
at the emergency room for care, the rest of us end up paying for their care 
in the form of higher premiums. 

And second, if you ask insurance companies to cover people with preexisting 
conditions, but don’t require people who can afford it to buy their own 
insurance, some folks might wait until they’re sick to buy the care they 
need -- which would also drive up everybody else’s premiums.

That’s why, even though I knew it wouldn’t be politically popular, and 
resisted the idea when I ran for this office, we ultimately included a 
provision in the Affordable Care Act that people who can afford to buy 
health insurance should take the responsibility to do so.  In fact, this 
idea has enjoyed support from members of both parties, including the 
current Republican nominee for President.

Still, I know the debate over this law has been divisive.  I respect the 
very real concerns that millions of Americans have shared.  And I know a 
lot of coverage through this health care debate has focused on what it 
means politically. 

Well, it should be pretty clear by now that I didn’t do this because it was 
good politics.  I did it because I believed it was good for the country.  I 
did it because I believed it was good for the American people.

There’s a framed letter that hangs in my office right now.  It was sent to 
me during the health care debate by a woman named Natoma Canfield.  For 
years and years, Natoma did everything right.  She bought health insurance. 
 She paid her premiums on time.  But 18 years ago, Natoma was diagnosed 
with cancer.  And even though she’d been cancer-free for more than a 
decade, her insurance company kept jacking up her rates, year after year.  
And despite her desire to keep her coverage -- despite her fears that she 
would get sick again -- she had to surrender her health insurance, and was 
forced to hang her fortunes on chance. 

I carried Natoma’s story with me every day of the fight to pass this law.  
It reminded me of all the Americans, all across the country, who have had 
to worry not only about getting sick, but about the cost of getting well. 

Natoma is well today.  And because of this law, there are other Americans 
-- other sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers -- 
who will not have to hang their fortunes on chance.  These are the 
Americans for whom we passed this law. 

The highest Court in the land has now spoken.  We will continue to 
implement this law.  And we'll work together to improve on it where we can. 
 But what we won’t do -- what the country can’t afford to do -- is refight 
the political battles of two years ago, or go back to the way things were. 

With today’s announcement, it’s time for us to move forward -- to implement 
and, where necessary, improve on this law.  And now is the time to keep our 
focus on the most urgent challenge of our time:  putting people back to 
work, paying down our debt, and building an economy where people can have 
confidence that if they work hard, they can get ahead. 

But today, I’m as confident as ever that when we look back five years from 
now, or 10 years from now, or 20 years from now, we’ll be better off 
because we had the courage to pass this law and keep moving forward. 

Thank you.  God bless you, and God bless America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text & Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.