 

 

Barack Obama

Address at the Transfer of Remains Ceremony for the Victims of the Attacks 
on the U.S. Consulate at Benghazi

delivered 14 September 2012, Joint Base Andrews AFB

Audio mp3 AR-XE of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

The Scripture teaches us,

    Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for
    his friends.1

Glen Doherty never shied from adventure. He believed that, in his life, he 
could make a difference -- a calling he fulfilled as a Navy SEAL. He served 
with distinction in Iraq and worked in Afghanistan. And there, in Benghazi, 
as he tended to others, he laid down his life, loyal as always, protecting 
his friends. Today, Glen is home.

Tyrone Woods devoted 20 years of his life to the SEALs -- the consummate 
"quiet professional." At the Salty Frog Bar, they might not have known, but 
"Rone" also served in Iraq and Afghanistan. And there, in Benghazi, he was 
far from Dorothy and Tyrone Jr., Hunter and little Kai. And he laid down 
his life, as he would have for them, protecting his friends. And today, 
Rone is home. 

Sean Smith, it seems, lived to serve -- first, in the Air Force, then, with 
you at the State Department. He knew the perils of this calling from his 
time in Baghdad. And there, in Benghazi, far from home, he surely thought 
of Heather and Samantha and Nathan. And he laid down his life in service to 
us all. Today, Sean is home.

Chris Stevens was everything America could want in an ambassador, as the 
whole country has come to see -- how he first went to the region as a young 
man in the Peace Corps, how during the revolution, he arrived in Libya on 
that cargo ship, how he believed in Libya and its people and how they loved 
him back. And there, in Benghazi, he laid down his life for his friends -- 
Libyan and American -- and for us all.  Today, Chris is home.

Four Americans, four patriots -- they loved this country and they chose to 
serve it, and served it well. They had a mission and they believed in it. 
They knew the danger and they accepted it. They didn’t simply embrace the 
American ideal, they lived it.  They embodied it -- the courage, the hope 
and, yes, the idealism, that fundamental American belief that we can leave 
this world a little better than before. That’s who they were and that’s who 
we are. And if we want to truly honor their memory, that’s who we must 
always be.

I know that this awful loss, the terrible images of recent days, the 
pictures we’re seeing again today, have caused some to question this work. 
And there is no doubt these are difficult days. In moments such as this -- 
so much anger and violence --even the most hopeful among us must wonder.

But amid all of the images of this week, I also think of the Libyans who 
took to the streets with homemade signs expressing their gratitude to an 
American who believed in what we could achieve together. I think of the man 
in Benghazi with his sign in English, a message he wanted all of us to hear 
that said, "Chris Stevens was a friend to all Libyans. Chris Stevens was a 
friend."

That’s the message these four patriots sent. That’s the message that each 
of you sends every day -- civilians, military -- to people in every corner 
of the world, that America is a friend, and that we care not just about our 
own country, not just about our own interests, but about theirs; that even 
as voices of suspicion and mistrust seek to divide countries and cultures 
from one another, the United States of America will never retreat from the 
world. We will never stop working for the dignity and freedom that every 
person deserves, whatever their creed, whatever their faith.

That’s the essence of American leadership. That’s the spirit that sets us 
apart from other nations. This was their work in Benghazi, and this is the 
work we will carry on.

To you -- their families and colleagues -- to all Americans, know this: 
Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. We will bring to justice those who 
took them from us. We will stand fast against the violence on our 
diplomatic missions. We will continue to do everything in our power to 
protect Americans serving overseas, whether that means increasing security 
at our diplomatic posts, working with host countries, which have an 
obligation to provide security, and making it clear that justice will come 
to those who harm Americans.

Most of all, even in our grief, we will be resolute. For we are Americans, 
and we hold our head high knowing that because of these patriots -- because 
of you -- this country that we love will always shine as a light unto the 
world.

    Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for
    his friends.

The flag they served under now carries them home.

May God bless the memory of these men who laid down their lives for us all.

May God watch over your families and all who loved them

And may God bless these United States of America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


1 John: 15:13


Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov

Image #1 Source: http://www.dvidshub.net 

Image #2 Source: http://www.andrews.af.mil/ 

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Images = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.