 

 

Barack Obama

67th Session of the United Nations General Assembly Address

delivered 25 September 2012, New York, NY

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio

 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, fellow delegates, ladies and 
gentleman:  I would like to begin today by telling you about an American 
named Chris Stevens  
.

Chris was born in a town called Grass Valley, California, the son of a 
lawyer and a musician.  As a young man, Chris joined the Peace Corps, and 
taught English in Morocco.  And he came to love and respect the people of 
North Africa and the Middle East. He would carry that commitment throughout 
his life.  As a diplomat, he worked from Egypt to Syria, from Saudi Arabia 
to Libya.  He was known for walking the streets of the cities where he 
worked -- tasting the local food, meeting as many people as he could, 
speaking Arabic, listening with a broad smile. 

Chris went to Benghazi in the early days of the Libyan revolution, arriving 
on a cargo ship.  As America’s representative, he helped the Libyan people 
as they coped with violent conflict, cared for the wounded, and crafted a 
vision for the future in which the rights of all Libyans would be 
respected. And after the revolution, he supported the birth of a new 
democracy, as Libyans held elections, and built new institutions, and began 
to move forward after decades of dictatorship.

Chris Stevens loved his work.  He took pride in the country he served, and 
he saw dignity in the people that he met.  And two weeks ago, he traveled 
to Benghazi to review plans to establish a new cultural center and 
modernize a hospital.  That’s when America’s compound came under attack.  
Along with three of his colleagues, Chris was killed in the city that he 
helped to save. He was 52 years old. 

I tell you this story because Chris Stevens embodied the best of America.  
Like his fellow Foreign Service officers, he built bridges across oceans 
and cultures, and was deeply invested in the international cooperation that 
the United Nations represents.  He acted with humility, but he also stood 
up for a set of principles -- a belief that individuals should be free to 
determine their own destiny, and live with liberty, dignity, justice, and 
opportunity. 

The attacks on the civilians in Benghazi were attacks on America.  We are 
grateful for the assistance we received from the Libyan government and from 
the Libyan people.  There should be no doubt that we will be relentless in 
tracking down the killers and bringing them to justice.  And I also 
appreciate that in recent days, the leaders of other countries in the 
region -- including Egypt, Tunisia and Yemen -- have taken steps to secure 
our diplomatic facilities, and called for calm.  And so have religious 
authorities around the globe.

But understand, the attacks of the last two weeks are not simply an assault 
on America.  They are also an assault on the very ideals upon which the 
United Nations was founded -- the notion that people can resolve their 
differences peacefully; that diplomacy can take the place of war; that in 
an interdependent world, all of us have a stake in working towards greater 
opportunity and security for our citizens.

If we are serious about upholding these ideals, it will not be enough to 
put more guards in front of an embassy, or to put out statements of regret 
and wait for the outrage to pass.  If we are serious about these ideals, we 
must speak honestly about the deeper causes of the crisis -- because we 
face a choice between the forces that would drive us apart and the hopes 
that we hold in common.

Today, we must reaffirm that our future will be determined by people like 
Chris Stevens -- and not by his killers.  Today, we must declare that this 
violence and intolerance has no place among our United Nations.

It has been less than two years since a vendor in Tunisia set himself on 
fire to protest the oppressive corruption in his country, and sparked what 
became known as the Arab Spring.  And since then, the world has been 
captivated by the transformation that’s taken place, and the United States 
has supported the forces of change.

We were inspired by the Tunisian protests that toppled a dictator, because 
we recognized our own beliefs in the aspiration of men and women who took 
to the streets.

We insisted on change in Egypt, because our support for democracy 
ultimately put us on the side of the people. 

We supported a transition of leadership in Yemen, because the interests of 
the people were no longer being served by a corrupt status quo.

We intervened in Libya alongside a broad coalition, and with the mandate of 
the United Nations Security Council, because we had the ability to stop the 
slaughter of innocents, and because we believed that the aspirations of the 
people were more powerful than a tyrant.

And as we meet here, we again declare that the regime of Bashar al-Assad 
must come to an end so that the suffering of the Syrian people can stop and 
a new dawn can begin.

We have taken these positions because we believe that freedom and 
self-determination are not unique to one culture.  These are not simply 
American values or Western values -- they are universal values.  And even 
as there will be huge challenges to come with a transition to democracy, I 
am convinced that ultimately government of the people, by the people, and 
for the people is more likely to bring about the stability, prosperity, and 
individual opportunity that serve as a basis for peace in our world.

So let us remember that this is a season of progress.  For the first time 
in decades, Tunisians, Egyptians and Libyans voted for new leaders in 
elections that were credible, competitive, and fair.  This democratic 
spirit has not been restricted to the Arab world.  Over the past year, 
we’ve seen peaceful transitions of power in Malawi and Senegal, and a new 
President in Somalia.  In Burma, a President has freed political prisoners 
and opened a closed society, a courageous dissident has been elected to 
parliament, and people look forward to further reform.  Around the globe, 
people are making their voices heard, insisting on their innate dignity, 
and the right to determine their future.

And yet the turmoil of recent weeks reminds us that the path to democracy 
does not end with the casting of a ballot.  Nelson Mandela once said:  "To 
be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, but to live in a way that 
respects and enhances the freedom of others."

True democracy demands that citizens cannot be thrown in jail because of 
what they believe, and that businesses can be opened without paying a 
bribe.  It depends on the freedom of citizens to speak their minds and 
assemble without fear, and on the rule of law and due process that 
guarantees the rights of all people.

In other words, true democracy -- real freedom -- is hard work.  Those in 
power have to resist the temptation to crack down on dissidents.  In hard 
economic times, countries must be tempted -- may be tempted to rally the 
people around perceived enemies, at home and abroad, rather than focusing 
on the painstaking work of reform.

Moreover, there will always be those that reject human progress -- 
dictators who cling to power, corrupt interests that depend on the status 
quo, and extremists who fan the flames of hate and division.  From Northern 
Ireland to South Asia, from Africa to the Americas, from the Balkans to the 
Pacific Rim, we’ve witnessed convulsions that can accompany transitions to 
a new political order. 

At time, the conflicts arise along the fault lines of race or tribe.  And 
often they arise from the difficulties of reconciling tradition and faith 
with the diversity and interdependence of the modern world.  In every 
country, there are those who find different religious beliefs threatening; 
in every culture, those who love freedom for themselves must ask themselves 
how much they’re willing to tolerate freedom for others.

That is what we saw play out in the last two weeks, as a crude and 
disgusting video sparked outrage throughout the Muslim world.  Now, I have 
made it clear that the United States government had nothing to do with this 
video, and I believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our 
common humanity.

It is an insult not only to Muslims, but to America as well -- for as the 
city outside these walls makes clear, we are a country that has welcomed 
people of every race and every faith.  We are home to Muslims who worship 
across our country.  We not only respect the freedom of religion, we have 
laws that protect individuals from being harmed because of how they look or 
what they believe.  We understand why people take offense to this video 
because millions of our citizens are among them.

I know there are some who ask why we don’t just ban such a video.  And the 
answer is enshrined in our laws:  Our Constitution protects the right to 
practice free speech. 

Here in the United States, countless publications provoke offense.  Like 
me, the majority of Americans are Christian, and yet we do not ban 
blasphemy against our most sacred beliefs.  As President of our country and 
Commander-in-Chief of our military, I accept that people are going to call 
me awful things every day -- and I will always defend their right to do so.

Americans have fought and died around the globe to protect the right of all 
people to express their views, even views that we profoundly disagree with. 
 We do not do so because we support hateful speech, but because our 
founders understood that without such protections, the capacity of each 
individual to express their own views and practice their own faith may be 
threatened.  We do so because in a diverse society, efforts to restrict 
speech can quickly become a tool to silence critics and oppress minorities. 


We do so because given the power of faith in our lives, and the passion 
that religious differences can inflame, the strongest weapon against 
hateful speech is not repression; it is more speech -- the voices of 
tolerance that rally against bigotry and blasphemy, and lift up the values 
of understanding and mutual respect.

Now, I know that not all countries in this body share this particular 
understanding of the protection of free speech.  We recognize that.  But in 
2012, at a time when anyone with a cell phone can spread offensive views 
around the world with the click of a button, the notion that we can control 
the flow of information is obsolete.  The question, then, is how do we 
respond? 

And on this we must agree:  There is no speech that justifies mindless 
violence.  There are no words that excuse the killing of innocents.  
There's no video that justifies an attack on an embassy.  There's no 
slander that provides an excuse for people to burn a restaurant in Lebanon, 
or destroy a school in Tunis, or cause death and destruction in Pakistan. 

In this modern world with modern technologies, for us to respond in that 
way to hateful speech empowers any individual who engages in such speech to 
create chaos around the world.  We empower the worst of us if that’s how we 
respond. 

More broadly, the events of the last two weeks also speak to the need for 
all of us to honestly address the tensions between the West and the Arab 
world that is moving towards democracy. 

Now, let me be clear:  Just as we cannot solve every problem in the world, 
the United States has not and will not seek to dictate the outcome of 
democratic transitions abroad.  We do not expect other nations to agree 
with us on every issue, nor do we assume that the violence of the past 
weeks or the hateful speech by some individuals represent the views of the 
overwhelming majority of Muslims, any more than the views of the people who 
produced this video represents those of Americans.  However, I do believe 
that it is the obligation of all leaders in all countries to speak out 
forcefully against violence and extremism.

It is time to marginalize those who -- even when not directly resorting to 
violence -- use hatred of America, or the West, or Israel, as the central 
organizing principle of politics. For that only gives cover, and sometimes 
makes an excuse, for those who do resort to violence.

That brand of politics -- one that pits East against West, and South 
against North, Muslims against Christians and Hindu and Jews -- can’t 
deliver on the promise of freedom.  To the youth, it offers only false 
hope.  Burning an American flag does nothing to provide a child an 
education.  Smashing apart a restaurant does not fill an empty stomach.  
Attacking an embassy won’t create a single job.  That brand of politics 
only makes it harder to achieve what we must do together:  educating our 
children, and creating the opportunities that they deserve; protecting 
human rights, and extending democracy’s promise.

Understand America will never retreat from the world.  We will bring 
justice to those who harm our citizens and our friends, and we will stand 
with our allies.  We are willing to partner with countries around the world 
to deepen ties of trade and investment, and science and technology, energy 
and development -- all efforts that can spark economic growth for all our 
people and stabilize democratic change. 

But such efforts depend on a spirit of mutual interest and mutual respect.  
No government or company, no school or NGO will be confident working in a 
country where its people are endangered.  For partnerships to be effective 
our citizens must be secure and our efforts must be welcomed.

A politics based only on anger -- one based on dividing the world between 
"us" and "them" -- not only sets back international cooperation, it 
ultimately undermines those who tolerate it.  All of us have an interest in 
standing up to these forces. 

Let us remember that Muslims have suffered the most at the hands of 
extremism.  On the same day our civilians were killed in Benghazi, a 
Turkish police officer was murdered in Istanbul only days before his 
wedding; more than 10 Yemenis were killed in a car bomb in Sana’a; several 
Afghan children were mourned by their parents just days after they were 
killed by a suicide bomber in Kabul.

The impulse towards intolerance and violence may initially be focused on 
the West, but over time it cannot be contained.  The same impulses toward 
extremism are used to justify war between Sunni and Shia, between tribes 
and clans.  It leads not to strength and prosperity but to chaos.  In less 
than two years, we have seen largely peaceful protests bring more change to 
Muslim-majority countries than a decade of violence.  And extremists 
understand this.  Because they have nothing to offer to improve the lives 
of people, violence is their only way to stay relevant.  They don’t build; 
they only destroy.

It is time to leave the call of violence and the politics of division 
behind.  On so many issues, we face a choice between the promise of the 
future, or the prisons of the past.  And we cannot afford to get it wrong.  
We must seize this moment.  And America stands ready to work with all who 
are willing to embrace a better future.

The future must not belong to those who target Coptic Christians in Egypt 
-- it must be claimed by those in Tahrir Square who chanted, "Muslims, 
Christians, we are one."  The future must not belong to those who bully 
women -- it must be shaped by girls who go to school, and those who stand 
for a world where our daughters can live their dreams just like our sons.

The future must not belong to those corrupt few who steal a country’s 
resources -- it must be won by the students and entrepreneurs, the workers 
and business owners who seek a broader prosperity for all people.  Those 
are the women and men that America stands with; theirs is the vision we 
will support. 
 
The future must not belong to those who slander the prophet of Islam.  But 
to be credible, those who condemn that slander must also condemn the hate 
we see in the images of Jesus Christ that are desecrated, or churches that 
are destroyed, or the Holocaust that is denied.

Let us condemn incitement against Sufi Muslims and Shiite pilgrims.  It’s 
time to heed the words of Gandhi:  "Intolerance is itself a form of 
violence and an obstacle to the growth of a true democratic spirit."  
Together, we must work towards a world where we are strengthened by our 
differences, and not defined by them.  That is what America embodies, 
that’s the vision we will support.

Among Israelis and Palestinians, the future must not belong to those who 
turn their backs on a prospect of peace.  Let us leave behind those who 
thrive on conflict, those who reject the right of Israel to exist.  The 
road is hard, but the destination is clear -- a secure, Jewish state of 
Israel and an independent, prosperous Palestine.  Understanding that such a 
peace must come through a just agreement between the parties, America will 
walk alongside all who are prepared to make that journey.

In Syria, the future must not belong to a dictator who massacres his 
people.  If there is a cause that cries out for protest in the world today, 
peaceful protest, it is a regime that tortures children and shoots rockets 
at apartment buildings.  And we must remain engaged to assure that what 
began with citizens demanding their rights does not end in a cycle of 
sectarian violence. 

Together, we must stand with those Syrians who believe in a different 
vision -- a Syria that is united and inclusive, where children don’t need 
to fear their own government, and all Syrians have a say in how they are 
governed -- Sunnis and Alawites, Kurds and Christians.  That’s what America 
stands for.  That is the outcome that we will work for -- with sanctions 
and consequences for those who persecute, and assistance and support for 
those who work for this common good.  Because we believe that the Syrians 
who embrace this vision will have the strength and the legitimacy to lead.

In Iran, we see where the path of a violent and unaccountable ideology 
leads.  The Iranian people have a remarkable and ancient history, and many 
Iranians wish to enjoy peace and prosperity alongside their neighbors.  But 
just as it restricts the rights of its own people, the Iranian government 
continues to prop up a dictator in Damascus and supports terrorist groups 
abroad.  Time and again, it has failed to take the opportunity to 
demonstrate that its nuclear program is peaceful, and to meet its 
obligations to the United Nations.

So let me be clear.  America wants to resolve this issue through diplomacy, 
and we believe that there is still time and space to do so.  But that time 
is not unlimited.  We respect the right of nations to access peaceful 
nuclear power, but one of the purposes of the United Nations is to see that 
we harness that power for peace.  And make no mistake, a nuclear-armed Iran 
is not a challenge that can be contained.  It would threaten the 
elimination of Israel, the security of Gulf nations, and the stability of 
the global economy.  It risks triggering a nuclear-arms race in the region, 
and the unraveling of the non-proliferation treaty.  That’s why a coalition 
of countries is holding the Iranian government accountable.  And that’s why 
the United States will do what we must to prevent Iran from obtaining a 
nuclear weapon.

We know from painful experience that the path to security and prosperity 
does not lie outside the boundaries of international law and respect for 
human rights.  That’s why this institution was established from the rubble 
of conflict.  That is why liberty triumphed over tyranny in the Cold War.  
And that is the lesson of the last two decades as well. 

History shows that peace and progress come to those who make the right 
choices.  Nations in every part of the world have traveled this difficult 
path.  Europe, the bloodiest battlefield of the 20th century, is united, 
free and at peace.  From Brazil to South Africa, from Turkey to South 
Korea, from India to Indonesia, people of different races, religions, and 
traditions have lifted millions out of poverty, while respecting the rights 
of their citizens and meeting their responsibilities as nations.

And it is because of the progress that I’ve witnessed in my own lifetime, 
the progress that I’ve witnessed after nearly four years as President, that 
I remain ever hopeful about the world that we live in.  The war in Iraq is 
over.  American troops have come home.  We’ve begun a transition in 
Afghanistan, and America and our allies will end our war on schedule in 
2014.  Al Qaeda has been weakened, and Osama bin Laden is no more.  Nations 
have come together to lock down nuclear materials, and America and Russia 
are reducing our arsenals.  We have seen hard choices made -- from 
Naypyidaw to Cairo to Abidjan -- to put more power in the hands of 
citizens.

At a time of economic challenge, the world has come together to broaden 
prosperity.  Through the G20, we have partnered with emerging countries to 
keep the world on the path of recovery.  America has pursued a development 
agenda that fuels growth and breaks dependency, and worked with African 
leaders to help them feed their nations.  New partnerships have been forged 
to combat corruption and promote government that is open and transparent, 
and new commitments have been made through the Equal Futures Partnership to 
ensure that women and girls can fully participate in politics and pursue 
opportunity.  And later today, I will discuss our efforts to combat the 
scourge of human trafficking.

All these things give me hope.  But what gives me the most hope is not the 
actions of us, not the actions of leaders -- it is the people that I’ve 
seen.  The American troops who have risked their lives and sacrificed their 
limbs for strangers half a world away; the students in Jakarta or Seoul who 
are eager to use their knowledge to benefit mankind; the faces in a square 
in Prague or a parliament in Ghana who see democracy giving voice to their 
aspirations; the young people in the favelas of Rio and the schools of 
Mumbai whose eyes shine with promise.  These men, women, and children of 
every race and every faith remind me that for every angry mob that gets 
shown on television, there are billions around the world who share similar 
hopes and dreams.  They tell us that there is a common heartbeat to 
humanity.

So much attention in our world turns to what divides us.  That’s what we 
see on the news.  That's what consumes our political debates.  But when you 
strip it all away, people everywhere long for the freedom to determine 
their destiny; the dignity that comes with work; the comfort that comes 
with faith; and the justice that exists when governments serve their people 
 -- and not the other way around.

The United States of America will always stand up for these aspirations, 
for our own people and for people all across the world.  That was our 
founding purpose.  That is what our history shows.  That is what Chris 
Stevens worked for throughout his life.

And I promise you this:  Long after the killers are brought to justice, 
Chris Stevens’s legacy will live on in the lives that he touched -- in the 
tens of thousands who marched against violence through the streets of 
Benghazi; in the Libyans who changed their Facebook photo to one of Chris; 
in the signs that read, simply, "Chris Stevens was a friend to all 
Libyans."

They should give us hope.  They should remind us that so long as we work 
for it, justice will be done, that history is on our side, and that a 
rising tide of liberty will never be reversed.

Thank you very much.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text, Audio, Image #1 (Screenshot) and #2 (Chuck Kennedy) Source: 
WhiteHouse.gov

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text, Audio, Images = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.