 

 

Barack Obama

Address On Repealing Oil and Gas Subsidies

delivered 29 March 2012, Rose Garden, White House

 

Audio AR-XE mp3 of Address


Plug-in required for flash audio


click for pdf
 
 
 
click for flash


 

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from 
audio]

Thank you very much.  Everybody, please have a seat.  Sorry we’re running 
just a little bit behind, but I figured it’s a great day to enjoy the Rose 
Garden.

Today, members of Congress have a simple choice to make:  They can stand 
with the big oil companies, or they can stand with the American people. 

Right now, the biggest oil companies are raking in record profits –- 
profits that go up every time folks pull up into a gas station.  But on top 
of these record profits, oil companies are also getting billions a year -- 
billions a year in taxpayer subsidies -- a subsidy that they’ve enjoyed 
year after year for the last century.

Think about that.  It’s like hitting the American people twice.  You’re 
already paying a premium at the pump right now.  And on top of that, 
Congress, up until this point, has thought it was a good idea to send 
billions of dollars more in tax dollars to the oil industry.

It’s not as if these companies can’t stand on their own.  Last year, the 
three biggest U.S. oil companies took home more than $80 billion in 
profits.  Exxon pocketed nearly $4.7 million every hour.  And when the 
price of oil goes up, prices at the pump go up, and so do these companies’ 
profits.  In fact, one analysis shows that every time gas goes up by a 
penny, these companies usually pocket another $200 million in quarterly 
profits.  Meanwhile, these companies pay a lower tax rate than most other 
companies on their investments, partly because we’re giving them billions 
in tax giveaways every year.

Now, I want to make clear, we all know that drilling for oil has to be a 
key part of our overall energy strategy.  We want U.S. oil companies to be 
doing well.  We want them to succeed.  That’s why under my administration, 
we’ve opened up millions of acres of federal lands and waters to oil and 
gas production.  We’ve quadrupled the number of operating oil rigs to a 
record high.  We’ve added enough oil and gas pipeline to circle the Earth 
and then some.  And just yesterday, we announced the next step for 
potential new oil and gas exploration in the Atlantic.

So the fact is, we’re producing more oil right now than we have in eight 
years, and we’re importing less of it as well.  For two years in a row, 
America has bought less oil from other countries than we produce here at 
home -- for the first time in over a decade. 

So American oil is booming.  The oil industry is doing just fine.  With 
record profits and rising production, I’m not worried about the big oil 
companies.  With high oil prices around the world, they’ve got more than 
enough incentive to produce even more oil.  That’s why I think it’s time 
they got by without more help from taxpayers who are already having a tough 
enough time paying the bills and filling up their gas tank.  And I think 
it’s curious that some folks in Congress, who are the first to belittle 
investments in new sources of energy, are the ones that are fighting the 
hardest to maintain these giveaways for the oil companies.

Instead of taxpayer giveaways to an industry that’s never been more 
profitable, we should be using that money to double-down on investments in 
clean energy technologies that have never been more promising -- 
investments in wind power and solar power and biofuels; investments in 
fuel-efficient cars and trucks, and energy-efficient homes and buildings.  
That’s the future.  That’s the only way we're going to break this cycle of 
high gas prices that happen year after year after year.  As the economy is 
growing, the only time you start seeing lower gas prices is when the 
economy is doing badly.  That’s not the kind of pattern that we want to be 
in.  We want the economy doing well, and people to be able to afford their 
energy costs.

And keep in mind, we can’t just drill our way out of this problem.  As I 
said, oil production here in the United States is doing very well, and it's 
been doing well even as gas prices are going up.  Well, the reason is 
because we use more than 20 percent of the world’s oil but we only have 2 
percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  And that means we could drill 
every drop of American oil tomorrow but we’d still have to buy oil from 
other countries to make up the difference.  We’d still have to depend on 
other countries to meet our energy needs.  And because it’s a world market, 
the fact that we’re doing more here in the United States doesn’t 
necessarily help us because even U.S. oil companies they’re selling that 
oil on a worldwide market.  They’re not keeping it just for us.  And that 
means that if there’s rising demand around the world then the prices are 
going to up.

That’s not the future that I want for America.  I don’t want folks like 
these back here and the folks in front of me to have to pay more at the 
pump every time that there’s some unrest in the Middle East and oil 
speculators get nervous about whether there’s going to be enough supply.  I 
don’t want our kids to be held hostage to events on the other side of the 
world. 

I want us to control our own destiny.  I want us to forge our own future.  
And that’s why, as long as I’m President, America is going to pursue an 
all-of-the-above energy strategy, which means we will continue developing 
our oil and gas resources in a robust and responsible way.  But it also 
means that we’re going to keep developing more advanced homegrown biofuels, 
the kinds that are already powering truck fleets across America. 

We’re going to keep investing in clean energy like the wind power and solar 
power that’s already lighting thousands of homes and creating thousands of 
jobs.  We’re going to keep manufacturing more cars and trucks to get more 
miles to the gallon so that you can fill up once every two weeks instead of 
every week.  We’re going to keep building more homes and businesses that 
waste less energy so that you’re in charge of your own energy bills. 

We’re going to do all of this by harnessing our most inexhaustible 
resource:  American ingenuity and American imagination.  That’s what we 
need to keep going.  That’s what’s at stake right now.  That’s the choice 
that we face.  And that’s the choice that’s facing Congress today.  They 
can either vote to spend billions of dollars more in oil subsidies that 
keep us trapped in the past, or they can vote to end these taxpayer 
subsidies that aren’t needed to boost oil production so that we can invest 
in the future.  It’s that simple. 

And as long as I’m President, I’m betting on the future.  And as the people 
I’ve talked to around the country, including the people who are behind me 
here today, they put their faith in the future as well.  That’s what we do 
as Americans.  That’s who we are.  We innovate.  We discover.  We seek new 
solutions to some of our biggest challenges.  And, ultimately, because we 
stick with it, we succeed.  And I believe that we’re going to do that 
again.  Today, the American people are going to be watching Congress to see 
if they have that same faith.

Thank you very much, everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Book/CDs by Michael E. Eidenmuller, Published by McGraw-Hill (2008)


Text and Audio Source: WhiteHouse.gov

Audio Note: AR-XE = American Rhetoric Extreme Enhancement

Copyright Status: Text and Audio = Public domain.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top 100 American Speeches 

Online Speech Bank 

Movie Speeches 

© Copyright 2001-Present. 
American Rhetoric.